Report ID	Author	Publication Date	Title	Abstract [as written in original source- not edited for this systematic map]	Publication	Country	"LatDD,LonDD"	Production System/Sector	Commodity	Certification Standard	Population	Sampling Unit	Position in Supply Chain	Research Method	Expand on Mixed Methods and Other	Study Design	Social	Social	Economic	Environmental	Education	Poverty	Health and Safety	Nutrition	Gender	Wellbeing	Community Benefits and Development	Knowledge Exchange	Transparency	Management systems	Price Premium	Profitability 	Costs	Market Advantage	Yield	Good Production Practices (including good forest management)	Financial Security	Deforestation	Conservation and Biodiversity	Pollution	Soil Management	Water Management	Input Use	Post-harvest Practices
1679	"Ackerknecht, C.; Bassaber, C.; Reyes, M.; Miranda, H."	2005	Environmental certification systems and impacts of their implementation on occupational health and safety in Chilean forest companies	"Environmental management systems developed by Chilean forest companies in fast-grown plantations and implemented for ISO 14001:1996 certification, best forest management practices certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, and occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001:1999), have been analysed to evaluate their effects on profitability due to the decrease in work accidents. The study was a st atistical analysis of data on accident rate, risk rate, and average time lost per accident for up to 25 companies over 7 years. A second phase of the study was extended to 10 years with the same companies and dependent variables. Analysis of variance was used to compare the incidence of occupational accidents before and after the environmental systems, best forest management practices, or occupational health and safety were implemented. Results varied between companies, a ccording to the specific dependent variables analysed. Nevertheless, after the environmental systems or best forest management practices were implemented most companies showed there were improvements in accident rate, risk rate, and average time lost per accident. For most companies implementation of ISO 14001 and Forest Stewardship Council requirements helped to increase competitiveness by improving safety indicators in a statistically significant way."	New Zealand Journal of Forestry Science 35  153-165 	Chile	"-35.675100, -71.543000"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); ISO 14001	Companies	Companies; logging contractors	Producer	Other	Chilean Safety Association data	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported									Data Reported	Data Reported											
RG20	Aidenvironment (Netherlands)	2016	Evaluation of UTZ in the Indonesian cocoa sector.	"This report presents the results of the  evaluation of UTZ in the Indonesian cocoa sector. It serves the dual purpose of proving the impact of UTZ at farm and sector levels and of creating a deeper understanding  of how UTZ can improve its impact in the future.  This impact evaluation focuses on the following research questions: 1.Does UTZ Certification con tribute to increased productivity and quality? 2.Does UTZ Certification contribute to better prices, better market access and to improved income? 3.What is the added value of UTZ certification when embedded within existing interventions? 4.What is the added value of UTZ in sustainable sector transformation?"	"Report, Aidenvironment (Netherlands)    "	Indonesia	"-0.589700, 101.343100"	Cocoa	Cocoa	UTZ 	Farms; Smallholders	Farms	Producer	Mixed methods	"Focus group discussions, Interviews, Surveys"	N/A	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported														Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported	
2665	"Akoyi, K. T.; Maertens, M."	2017	Walk the Talk: Private Sustainability Standards in the Ugandan Coffee Sector	"We investigate the welfare and productivity implications of private sustainability standards in the coffee sector in Uganda. We use cross-sectional household survey data and an instrumental variable method with instruments that pass weak identification and over-identification restrictions. We find that triple Utz-Rainforest Alliance-4C certification increases income, and land and labour productivity, and reduces poverty. Double Fairtrade-Organic certification is found to be associated with higher producer prices but results in lower land and labour productivity, and thereby fails to increase producer income and contribute to poverty reduction. We conclude that private sustainability standards do not always live up the expectations they create towards consumers. √•¬© 2017 Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group"	Journal of Development Studies   1-27 DOI:10.1080/00220388.2017.1327663	Uganda	"1.149300, 34.541800"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic; UTZ 	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Smallholders; Farms	Producer	Mixed methods	"Household Surveys, Modelling"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported										Data Reported			Data Reported									
8886	"Arnould, Eric J.; Plastina, Alejandro; Ball, Dwayne"	2009	"Does Fair Trade Deliver on Its Core Value Proposition? Effects on Income, Educational Attainment, and Health in Three Countries"	"Alternative trade organizations (ATOs) based on philosophies of social justice and/or environmental well-being are establishing new channels of trade and marketing. Partisans promote ATOs as systems to transfer benefits from consumers in the wealthy northern hemisphere to producers in the poor southern hemisphere. The central public policy question is whether the well-being of poor agricultural producers in the southern hemisphere is actually being improved by fair-trade practices, or are consumers who buy products on this premise deceived? The research reported here partially answers the question whether participation in a fair-trade coffee marketing channel delivers benefits to small-scale producers in Latin America. The authors employ a survey methodology to compare TransFair USA (TF) cooperative participants and nonparticipating farmers in three countries on socioeconomic indicators of well-being. According to the analysis, the economic effects of fair-trade participation are unassailable; the effects on educational and health outcomes are uneven. However, TF cooperative participation positively affects educational attainment and the likelihood that a child is currently studying. The authors find positive health-related consequences of TF cooperative participation."	Journal of Public Policy & Marketing 28  186-201 	Guatemala	"15.783500, -90.230800 "	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives	Co-operatives	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, Questionnaire"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported									
8886	"Arnould, Eric J.; Plastina, Alejandro; Ball, Dwayne"	2009	"Does Fair Trade Deliver on Its Core Value Proposition? Effects on Income, Educational Attainment, and Health in Three Countries"	"Alternative trade organizations (ATOs) based on philosophies of social justice and/or environmental well-being are establishing new channels of trade and marketing. Partisans promote ATOs as systems to transfer benefits from consumers in the wealthy northern hemisphere to producers in the poor southern hemisphere. The central public policy question is whether the well-being of poor agricultural producers in the southern hemisphere is actually being improved by fair-trade practices, or are consumers who buy products on this premise deceived? The research reported here partially answers the question whether participation in a fair-trade coffee marketing channel delivers benefits to small-scale producers in Latin America. The authors employ a survey methodology to compare TransFair USA (TF) cooperative participants and nonparticipating farmers in three countries on socioeconomic indicators of well-being. According to the analysis, the economic effects of fair-trade participation are unassailable; the effects on educational and health outcomes are uneven. However, TF cooperative participation positively affects educational attainment and the likelihood that a child is currently studying. The authors find positive health-related consequences of TF cooperative participation."	Journal of Public Policy & Marketing 28  186-201 	Nicaragua	"12.865400, -85.207200"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives	Co-operatives	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, Questionnaire"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported									
8886	"Arnould, Eric J.; Plastina, Alejandro; Ball, Dwayne"	2009	"Does Fair Trade Deliver on Its Core Value Proposition? Effects on Income, Educational Attainment, and Health in Three Countries"	"Alternative trade organizations (ATOs) based on philosophies of social justice and/or environmental well-being are establishing new channels of trade and marketing. Partisans promote ATOs as systems to transfer benefits from consumers in the wealthy northern hemisphere to producers in the poor southern hemisphere. The central public policy question is whether the well-being of poor agricultural producers in the southern hemisphere is actually being improved by fair-trade practices, or are consumers who buy products on this premise deceived? The research reported here partially answers the question whether participation in a fair-trade coffee marketing channel delivers benefits to small-scale producers in Latin America. The authors employ a survey methodology to compare TransFair USA (TF) cooperative participants and nonparticipating farmers in three countries on socioeconomic indicators of well-being. According to the analysis, the economic effects of fair-trade participation are unassailable; the effects on educational and health outcomes are uneven. However, TF cooperative participation positively affects educational attainment and the likelihood that a child is currently studying. The authors find positive health-related consequences of TF cooperative participation."	Journal of Public Policy & Marketing 28  186-201 	Peru	" -9.190000, -75.015200"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives	Co-operatives	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, Questionnaire"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported									
12191	"Azhar, B.; Saadun, N.; Puan, C. L.; Kamarudin, N.; Aziz, N.; Nurhidayu, S.; Fischer, J."	2015	Promoting landscape heterogeneity to improve the biodiversity benefits of certified palm oil production: Evidence from Peninsular Malaysia	"The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is responsible for the certification of palm oil producers that comply with sustainability standards. However, it is not known whether RSPO-certified plantations are effective in maintaining biodiversity. Focusing on Peninsular Malaysia, we show that both RSPO-certified plantations and uncertified large-scale plantations are characterized by very low levels of landscape heterogeneity. By contrast, heterogeneity measures were many times higher in palm oil producing smallholdings, despite their lack of RSPO certification. The low heterogeneity of large-scale oil palm plantations, including those certified by the RSPO, is likely to severely limit their value for biodiversity conservation. Uncertified smallholdings, in contrast, are much more heterogeneous and therefore hold substantially greater promise for the integration of palm oil production and biodiversity conservation than large-scale plantations. With oil palm agriculture further expanding, certification schemes should mandate producers to improve biodiversity conservation through landscape management that promotes greater landscape heterogeneity. √•¬© 2015 The Authors."	Global Ecology and Conservation 3  553-561 DOI:10.1016/j.gecco.2015.02.009	Malaysia	"3.1390, 101.6869"	Palm Oil	Palm oil	Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)	Plantations	Plantations; Smallholders	Producer	Mapping Data	Google maps and visits to selected sites for verification	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																			Data Reported					
6597	"Bass, S.; Thornber, K.; Markopoulos, M.; Roberts, S.; Grieg-Gran, M."	2001	"Certification's impacts on forests, stakeholders and supply chains"	"This book contains 4 chapters which provide information on how forest certification could best contribute to sustainable development. The first chapter includes an introduction and concentrates on three fields of enquiry: how certification has impacted on community forestry and community forestry enterprise; how certification has helped improve responsible business practice in industrial forest product supply chains; and how certification has contributed the kinds of policy processes that lead to sustainable forest management. Chapter 2 presents a synthesis of case studies of certified community-based enterprises in Bolivia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Zambia, which are field assessments of the social, economic and environmental impacts of market-based certification. It highlights the main lessons and trends to emerge from the case studies, supplemented by analysis of additional literature and relevant experiences, and analyses stakeholder motivation for certification, the challenges and outcomes of certification. Chapter 3 looks at how certification has worked as a market-based tool in practice, examining mechanisms by which market demands for certified products translate into decisions by forest managers to certify. The last chapter on the other hand discusses the applications of certification categorized into three groups: market-oriented certification of forest products or forest environmental services; regulation-oriented verification to strengthen or complement forest law enforcement; and project- or institutional-oriented certification to verify that particular forestry goals or outcomes have been achieved."	Instruments for Sustainable Private Sector Forestry Series    	Bolivia	"-16.290200, -63.588700"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Farms	Per-country	Producer	Mixed methods	"FSC database, interviews, literature reviews, field work"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported				Data Reported 	Data Reported							
6597	"Bass, S.; Thornber, K.; Markopoulos, M.; Roberts, S.; Grieg-Gran, M."	2001	"Certification's impacts on forests, stakeholders and supply chains"	"This book contains 4 chapters which provide information on how forest certification could best contribute to sustainable development. The first chapter includes an introduction and concentrates on three fields of enquiry: how certification has impacted on community forestry and community forestry enterprise; how certification has helped improve responsible business practice in industrial forest product supply chains; and how certification has contributed the kinds of policy processes that lead to sustainable forest management. Chapter 2 presents a synthesis of case studies of certified community-based enterprises in Bolivia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Zambia, which are field assessments of the social, economic and environmental impacts of market-based certification. It highlights the main lessons and trends to emerge from the case studies, supplemented by analysis of additional literature and relevant experiences, and analyses stakeholder motivation for certification, the challenges and outcomes of certification. Chapter 3 looks at how certification has worked as a market-based tool in practice, examining mechanisms by which market demands for certified products translate into decisions by forest managers to certify. The last chapter on the other hand discusses the applications of certification categorized into three groups: market-oriented certification of forest products or forest environmental services; regulation-oriented verification to strengthen or complement forest law enforcement; and project- or institutional-oriented certification to verify that particular forestry goals or outcomes have been achieved."	Instruments for Sustainable Private Sector Forestry Series    	Honduras	"15.200000, -86.241900 "	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Farms	Per-country	Producer	Mixed methods	"FSC database, interviews, literature reviews, field work"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported				Data Reported 	Data Reported							
6597	"Bass, S.; Thornber, K.; Markopoulos, M.; Roberts, S.; Grieg-Gran, M."	2001	"Certification's impacts on forests, stakeholders and supply chains"	"This book contains 4 chapters which provide information on how forest certification could best contribute to sustainable development. The first chapter includes an introduction and concentrates on three fields of enquiry: how certification has impacted on community forestry and community forestry enterprise; how certification has helped improve responsible business practice in industrial forest product supply chains; and how certification has contributed the kinds of policy processes that lead to sustainable forest management. Chapter 2 presents a synthesis of case studies of certified community-based enterprises in Bolivia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Zambia, which are field assessments of the social, economic and environmental impacts of market-based certification. It highlights the main lessons and trends to emerge from the case studies, supplemented by analysis of additional literature and relevant experiences, and analyses stakeholder motivation for certification, the challenges and outcomes of certification. Chapter 3 looks at how certification has worked as a market-based tool in practice, examining mechanisms by which market demands for certified products translate into decisions by forest managers to certify. The last chapter on the other hand discusses the applications of certification categorized into three groups: market-oriented certification of forest products or forest environmental services; regulation-oriented verification to strengthen or complement forest law enforcement; and project- or institutional-oriented certification to verify that particular forestry goals or outcomes have been achieved."	Instruments for Sustainable Private Sector Forestry Series    	Mexico	" 23.634500, -102.552800 "	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Farms	Per-country	Producer	Mixed methods	"FSC database, interviews, literature reviews, field work"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported				Data Reported 	Data Reported							
6597	"Bass, S.; Thornber, K.; Markopoulos, M.; Roberts, S.; Grieg-Gran, M."	2001	"Certification's impacts on forests, stakeholders and supply chains"	"This book contains 4 chapters which provide information on how forest certification could best contribute to sustainable development. The first chapter includes an introduction and concentrates on three fields of enquiry: how certification has impacted on community forestry and community forestry enterprise; how certification has helped improve responsible business practice in industrial forest product supply chains; and how certification has contributed the kinds of policy processes that lead to sustainable forest management. Chapter 2 presents a synthesis of case studies of certified community-based enterprises in Bolivia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Zambia, which are field assessments of the social, economic and environmental impacts of market-based certification. It highlights the main lessons and trends to emerge from the case studies, supplemented by analysis of additional literature and relevant experiences, and analyses stakeholder motivation for certification, the challenges and outcomes of certification. Chapter 3 looks at how certification has worked as a market-based tool in practice, examining mechanisms by which market demands for certified products translate into decisions by forest managers to certify. The last chapter on the other hand discusses the applications of certification categorized into three groups: market-oriented certification of forest products or forest environmental services; regulation-oriented verification to strengthen or complement forest law enforcement; and project- or institutional-oriented certification to verify that particular forestry goals or outcomes have been achieved."	Instruments for Sustainable Private Sector Forestry Series    	Papua New Guinea	"-6.315000, 143.9555 "	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Farms	Per-country	Producer	Mixed methods	"FSC database, interviews, literature reviews, field work"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported				Data Reported 	Data Reported							
6597	"Bass, S.; Thornber, K.; Markopoulos, M.; Roberts, S.; Grieg-Gran, M."	2001	"Certification's impacts on forests, stakeholders and supply chains"	"This book contains 4 chapters which provide information on how forest certification could best contribute to sustainable development. The first chapter includes an introduction and concentrates on three fields of enquiry: how certification has impacted on community forestry and community forestry enterprise; how certification has helped improve responsible business practice in industrial forest product supply chains; and how certification has contributed the kinds of policy processes that lead to sustainable forest management. Chapter 2 presents a synthesis of case studies of certified community-based enterprises in Bolivia, Mexico, Papua New Guinea and Zambia, which are field assessments of the social, economic and environmental impacts of market-based certification. It highlights the main lessons and trends to emerge from the case studies, supplemented by analysis of additional literature and relevant experiences, and analyses stakeholder motivation for certification, the challenges and outcomes of certification. Chapter 3 looks at how certification has worked as a market-based tool in practice, examining mechanisms by which market demands for certified products translate into decisions by forest managers to certify. The last chapter on the other hand discusses the applications of certification categorized into three groups: market-oriented certification of forest products or forest environmental services; regulation-oriented verification to strengthen or complement forest law enforcement; and project- or institutional-oriented certification to verify that particular forestry goals or outcomes have been achieved."	Instruments for Sustainable Private Sector Forestry Series    	Zambia	"-13.133900, 27.849300"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Farms	Per-country	Producer	Mixed methods	"FSC database, interviews, literature reviews, field work"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported				Data Reported 	Data Reported							
5705	"Baumgartner U., Nguyen T.H."	2016	"Organic certification for shrimp value chains in Ca Mau, Vietnam: a means for improvement or an end in itself?"		" Environment, Development and Sustainability, 19: 987-1002. DOI 10.1007/s10668-016-9781-z"	Vietnam 	"14.0583, 108.2772"	Fishing	Shrimp	Naturland Organic Standard	Farms	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	Surveys and Interviews	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported					
G13	"Becchetti, Leonardo; Costantino, Marco"	2008	The Effects of Fair Trade on Affiliated Producers: An Impact Analysis on Kenyan Farmers		World Development 36 5 823-842 DOI:10.1016/j.worlddev.2007.05.007	Kenya	"0.05, 37.64"	Agriculture	Mixed crops	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Farmers	Farmers	Producer	Household surveys	100 point questionnaire	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported						Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported							
1271	"Bellamy, A. S.; Svensson, O.; van den Brink, P. J.; Tedengren, M."	2016	What is in a label? Rainforest-Alliance certified banana production versus non-certified conventional banana production	"Export banana production in Latin America is pesticide intensive, receiving much negative publicity regarding human health problems and environmental degradation. The Rainforest Alliance (RA) certification scheme was established to certify farms that met a number of social, occupation health and environmental standards set by RA and their certifying body, the Sustainable Agriculture Network (SAN). This study was one of the first, independent studies of the environmental impact of some of the principles set by RA and SAN. The study focuses on insect and bird diversity as an indicator of ecosystem health. Five RA certified farms, six non-RA certified farms, and five organic certified farms were sampled. The data was analyzed with RDA multivariate analyses and Monte Carlo permutation tests. The results showed that RA certified farms had less insect diversity compared to non-RA certified farms and that both farm types had less insect diversity than organic farms. There was little difference between RA and non-RA certified farms with regards bird community composition. Thus, organic farming conserves biodiversity, while alternative environmental labels (e.g. a Rainforest alliance seal) may not have any visible positive effect on in-farm biodiversity. This study points to the need for improvements in SAN certification standards to achieve improved environmental conditions. √•¬© 2016 The Authors."	Global Ecology and Conservation 7  39-48 DOI:10.1016/j.gecco.2016.05.002	Costa Rica	"9.9281, -84.0907"	Fruit	Banana	Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Farmers and Chiquita Brand International	Farmers	Producer	Field experiments	Insect and bird surveys	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																			Data Reported				Data Reported	
5736	"Belton, B.; Haque, M. M.; Little, D. C.; Le Xuan, Sinh"	2011	Certifying catfish in Vietnam and Bangladesh: who will make the grade and will it matter?	"Certification is an increasingly pervasive form of market governance through which retailers and NGOs are able to exert control over producers of primary products in order to secure their commercial and institutional interests. This paper assesses the likely outcomes of emerging certification standards intended to govern production of a new global commodity, Pangasius catfish. This evaluation focuses on Pangasius producers in Vietnam and Bangladesh, and one of the key areas which standards seek to regulate; the environment. We conclude that certification is likely to result in greater differentiation and polarisation between larger and smaller farm operators and will increasingly act to exclude of the latter from access to Western European and North American markets, and that any local environmental gains produced may be of relatively minor significance."	Food Policy 36  289-299 DOI:10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.11.027	Bangladesh	"23.685000, 90.356300 "	Aquaculture	Fish	GLOBALG.A.P; Aquaculture certification council (ACC); Pangasius aquaculture dialogue (PAD)	Smallholders; Farms	Farms	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported								Data Reported 		Data Reported 		
5736	"Belton, B.; Haque, M. M.; Little, D. C.; Le Xuan, Sinh"	2011	Certifying catfish in Vietnam and Bangladesh: who will make the grade and will it matter?	"Certification is an increasingly pervasive form of market governance through which retailers and NGOs are able to exert control over producers of primary products in order to secure their commercial and institutional interests. This paper assesses the likely outcomes of emerging certification standards intended to govern production of a new global commodity, Pangasius catfish. This evaluation focuses on Pangasius producers in Vietnam and Bangladesh, and one of the key areas which standards seek to regulate; the environment. We conclude that certification is likely to result in greater differentiation and polarisation between larger and smaller farm operators and will increasingly act to exclude of the latter from access to Western European and North American markets, and that any local environmental gains produced may be of relatively minor significance."	Food Policy 36  289-299 DOI:10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.11.027	Vietnam 	"14.058300, 108.277200"	Aquaculture	Fish	GLOBALG.A.P; Aquaculture certification council (ACC); Pangasius aquaculture dialogue (PAD)	Smallholders; Farms	Farms	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported								Data Reported 		Data Reported 		
1059	"Blackman, A.; Goff, L.; Rivera Planter, M.; Planter, M. R."	2015	Does eco-certification stem tropical deforestation? Forest Stewardship Council certification in Mexico	"Since its creation more than two decades ago as a voluntary market-based approach to improving forest management, forest certification has proliferated rapidly in developing countries. Yet we know little about whether and under what conditions it affects deforestation. We use rich forest management unit-level panel data - including information on deforestation, certification, regulatory permitting, and geophysical and socioeconomic land characteristics - along with matched fixed effects models to identify the effect of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification on deforestation in Mexico, the country with the third-highest number of FSC certifications in the developing world. We test for a variety of different temporal and subgroup effects but are unable to reject the null hypothesis that certification does not affect deforestation. Although these results do not indicate that FSC certification has no effect on forest management, they do suggest that its impact on deforestation may be limited."	Discussion Paper - Resources for the Future (RFF)   49-pp 	Mexico	"19.566500, -101.706800"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Forest manageent Units	FMU's	Producer	Government data	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																		Data Reported						
7474	"Blackman, A.; Naranjo, M. A."	2012	Does eco-certification have environmental benefits? Organic coffee in Costa Rica	"Eco-certification of coffee, timber and other high-value agricultural commodities is increasingly widespread. In principle, it can improve commodity producers' environmental performance, even in countries where state regulation is weak. But eco-certification will have limited environmental benefits if, as one would expect, it disproportionately selects for producers already meeting certification standards. Rigorous evaluations of the environmental effects of eco-certification in developing countries that control for selection bias are virtually nonexistent. To help fill this gap, we use detailed farm-level data to analyze the environmental impacts of organic coffee certification in central Costa Rica. We use propensity score matching to control for selection bias. We find that organic certification improves coffee growers' environmental performance. It significantly reduces chemical input use and increases adoption of some environmentally friendly management practices. √•¬© 2012 Elsevier B.V."	Ecological Economics 83  58-66 DOI:10.1016/j.ecolecon.2012.08.001	Costa Rica	"9.91, -83.68"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic	Association	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Census data, GIS,"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported																Data Reported							Data Reported	
G09	"Bolwig, Simon; Gibbon, Peter; Jones, Sam"	2009	The Economics of Smallholder Organic Contract Farming in Tropical Africa		World Development 37 6 1094-1104 DOI:10.1016/j.worlddev.2008.09.012	Uganda	"0.347596, 32.582520"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Mixed methods	Household survey and direct observations of practise	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported 						Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported									
1346	"Camino, R. de; Alfaro, M., To"	1998	Certification in Latin America: Experience To Date	"Based on a study of certified forest management units in Central America, and a detailed case study from Brazil, this paper presents some of the positive and negative aspects of certification as experienced by the various actors involved. There is growing interest in certification across Central America and initiatives to define nationally-appropriate criteria and indicators are being established in many countries. It is clear that it is generally the most innovative forest owners who have become certified. For most, sustainability was already a key objective for their forest management so that the additional cost involved in becoming certified was marginal. The process of certification promoted by the Forest Stewardship Council is generally seen as a useful one, resulting in improvements to technical forest management, better relations with workers and with local authorities, and access to new markets. Nevertheless, the process is also criticised for being too dominated by Northern certification bodies with the quality of certification teams being variable from one place to another. The increasing competition between certification bodies raises questions about the potential conflict between running a business and maintaining consistent standards of certification. Other issues raised concern the perceived dominance of a Northern conservationist paradigm (both amongst NGOs and donors) which is seen to put environmental interests above business reality, is reluctant to assist private forest companies in becoming certified, and would prefer no operations in primary forest to be certified."	"RDFN Network Paper 23c, Rural Development Forestry Network,ODI      "	Brazil	"-15.7942,-47.8822"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Forest management Units	FMU's	Producer	Interviews 	N/A	Pre-post 	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported							Data Reported	Data Reported							Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported 		Data Reported
8976	"Carter, D. R.; Merry, F. D."	1998	The nature and status of certification in the United States	"Forest certification has been promoted as a market-based incentive for improved forest management. Indeed, U.S. producers are increasingly interested in whether they should become certified. However, the economic and market implications, as well as the current nature and status of certified wood markets in the United States, are not well understood. A review indicates that producers face both direct and indirect costs associated with adoption. These costs are expected to be covered by increased product prices, or the 'green' premium. The overall impact on market equilibrium though is uncertain. For example, widespread certification could force marginal forest land to go out of commercial production. Current production of certified wood in the United States is limited to four major producers. Although the market for certified wood is distributed throughout the United States, merchants of certified products are located primarily on the west coast. Sawn wood, flooring, S2S lumber, and wholesale furniture are the most popular items."	Forest Products Journal 48  23-23 	USA	"38.8951100, -77.0363700"	Forest sector	Timber 	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Merchants	Merchants	Producer; Processor	Online surveys ; Questionnaire	Survey was mailed and phone calls to follow up	Pre-post	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported 				Data Reported 		Data Reported										
2532	Cassio Franco Moreira; Elisabete A. de Nadai Fernandes;  Carlos Eduardo de Freitas Vian; 	2011	Coffee certification features in Brazil	"The market of certified agricultural products Data Reporteds every day. Developed countries demand information on the production system and the origin of the product concerning socioenvironmental sustainability and quality attributes. The consumer seeks to know how his/ her food has been produced. Certified products are more and more present at shops and supermarkets worldwide. In the coffee sector this also happens, and the Brazilian coffee is perhaps the most national developed agriculture sector regarding certification. Distinct coffee certification standards are present at the Brazilian coffee production, and the following are the main ones: Organic, FairTrade (FT), Utz Certified (UC), and Rain Forest Alliance (RA). However, each of these standards considers distinct aspects of coffee production and its respective products are in the market carried with different characteristics. The characterization of each certification standard as well as its exhibition to the producers and consumers is important so that they make their decision in a clear and conscious way. Coffee certification in Brazil has contributed to considerable social and environmental improvements in the production sector. Coffee certification in Brazil is still improving and its benefits are reaching society"	" Organiza√ß√µes Rurais & Agroindustriais, Lavras, v. 13, n. 3, p. 344-351"	Brazil	"-15.835420, -48.063619"	Coffee	Coffee	Various	Various		Producer			Overview of markets	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported													
13385	"Castellini C., Boggia A., Paolotti L., Thoma G.J. , Kim D.S."	2012	 Environmental Impacts and Life Cycle Analysis of Organic Meat Production and Processing.		" In. Wiley-Blackwell Department of Applied Biology, University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy Department of Economics and Appraisal, University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy Ralph E. Martin Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR, United States, pp. 113-136. DOI: 10.1002/9781118229088.ch7"	Italy 	"41.8719, 12.5674"	Livestock	Chicken	Organic	Farms	Farms	Producer	Field experiments		Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																			Data Reported			Data Reported		
11625	"Caudill, S. A.; Rice, R. A."	2016	"Do Bird Friendly (R) coffee criteria benefit mammals? Assessment of mammal diversity in Chiapas, Mexico"	"Biodiversity-friendly coffee certifications offer a viable way to protect wildlife habitat while providing a financial incentive to farmers. Most studies related to these certifications focus on avian habitat requirements and it is not known whether these standards also apply to other wildlife, such as mammals, that inhabit the coffee landscapes. We assessed the non-volant mammalian fauna and their associated habitat requirements in 23 sites representing forest, Bird Friendly√•¬¨ shade, conventional shade, and sun coffee habitats. We used Sherman trap-grids to measure small mammal abundance and richness, while camera traps were set for medium-sized and large mammals. We detected 17 species of mammals, representing 11 families. This preliminary study indicates that coffee farms in this region provide an important refuge for mammalian wildlife. Mammal species density ranked significantly higher in Bird Friendly√•¬¨ coffee sites than other coffee habitats, although there was no significant difference for species richness (using Chao2 estimator) among the habitat types. No significant difference was found in small mammal abundance among the habitat types. We found a higher species density of medium and large mammals in sites with larger, more mature shade trees associated with, but not required by Bird Friendly√•¬¨ certification standards. However, lower strata vegetation (5 cm to 1 m tall), the only vegetation parameter found to increase abundance and density for small mammals, is not specified in the Bird Friendly√•¬¨ standards. Our findings suggest that although the standards devised for avian habitat do benefit mammals, further study is needed on the requirements specific for mammals that could be included to enhance the coffee habitat for mammals that inhabit these coffee landscapes."	PLoS ONE 11   DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0165662	Mexico	"16.7569, -93.1292"	Coffee	Coffee	SBF (Smithsonian Bird Friendly Coffee)	Farms	Farms	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																		Data Reported	Data Reported					
G15-10140	"Cerutti, P. O.; Lescuyer, G.; Tsanga, R.; Kassa, S. N.; Mapangou, P. R.; Mendoula, E. E.; Missamba-Lola, A. P.; Nasi, R.; Eckebil, P. P. T.; Yembe, R. Y."	2014	Social impacts of the Forest Stewardship Council certification: an assessment in the Congo basin	"This Occasional Paper assessed the social performance of nine forest management units (FMU) certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and compared it with the performance of nine similar non-certified FMUs in Cameroon, the Republic of the Congo and Gabon. Results showed that the longer one company remained in one place, the deeper social relations with the neighbouring population became. This in itself is conducive to an environment in which there is less conflict between the local population and logging companies. However, it is usually only after companies decided to pursue certification that several practical social improvements occurred. In particular, in certified FMUs, this study found better working and living conditions for workers and their families; more inclusive and better governed institutions for negotiations between the local population and logging companies, except with regard to conflict-resolution mechanisms; better managed and more effective benefit-sharing mechanisms; and innovative ways of dealing with problems related to infringement of customary uses. The complex historical and political-economic reality in which certification has developed in the Congo basin might well make issues of attribution and causality difficult to clarify. Further, results help establish a clear boundary that currently exists between certified and non-certified timber. The former is sourced in FMUs that implement not only legally mandated social standards but also voluntarily adopted ones that are superior and more effective. There should of course be no complacency from the FSC or logging companies with certified FMUs in comparing themselves with the 'bottom,' as the logic of the FSC is to reward more responsible forest managers who are assessed against ever-evolving standards, irrespective of the quality of national legislation. However, one should also not forget that companies with certified FMUs in the study countries are competing less against a theoretical global logging company than against their neighbours, who daily produce the same species and sell on similar markets, albeit with much lower investments, especially those targeted to improve social performance. In this very competitive and uneven playing field, and with the scarce price premiums obtained so far, the evidence presented indicates that certification in the Congo basin has been able to push companies toward remarkable social progress."	CIFOR Occasional Paper   58-pp 	Cameroon	"3.866667, 11.516667 "	Forest sector	Timber; Nontimber Forest Products (NTFP)	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Companies	FMU's	Producer; Processor 	Mixed methods	"Used company data including management plans, socioeconomic studies and relevant written policies. Focus groups, questions asked of staff and families, social transects and structured interviews"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported				Data Reported			Data Reported							
G15-10140	"Cerutti, P. O.; Lescuyer, G.; Tsanga, R.; Kassa, S. N.; Mapangou, P. R.; Mendoula, E. E.; Missamba-Lola, A. P.; Nasi, R.; Eckebil, P. P. T.; Yembe, R. Y."	2014	Social impacts of the Forest Stewardship Council certification: an assessment in the Congo basin	"This Occasional Paper assessed the social performance of nine forest management units (FMU) certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and compared it with the performance of nine similar non-certified FMUs in Cameroon, the Republic of the Congo and Gabon. Results showed that the longer one company remained in one place, the deeper social relations with the neighbouring population became. This in itself is conducive to an environment in which there is less conflict between the local population and logging companies. However, it is usually only after companies decided to pursue certification that several practical social improvements occurred. In particular, in certified FMUs, this study found better working and living conditions for workers and their families; more inclusive and better governed institutions for negotiations between the local population and logging companies, except with regard to conflict-resolution mechanisms; better managed and more effective benefit-sharing mechanisms; and innovative ways of dealing with problems related to infringement of customary uses. The complex historical and political-economic reality in which certification has developed in the Congo basin might well make issues of attribution and causality difficult to clarify. Further, results help establish a clear boundary that currently exists between certified and non-certified timber. The former is sourced in FMUs that implement not only legally mandated social standards but also voluntarily adopted ones that are superior and more effective. There should of course be no complacency from the FSC or logging companies with certified FMUs in comparing themselves with the 'bottom,' as the logic of the FSC is to reward more responsible forest managers who are assessed against ever-evolving standards, irrespective of the quality of national legislation. However, one should also not forget that companies with certified FMUs in the study countries are competing less against a theoretical global logging company than against their neighbours, who daily produce the same species and sell on similar markets, albeit with much lower investments, especially those targeted to improve social performance. In this very competitive and uneven playing field, and with the scarce price premiums obtained so far, the evidence presented indicates that certification in the Congo basin has been able to push companies toward remarkable social progress."	CIFOR Occasional Paper   58-pp 	Gabon	"0.383333, 9.45"	Forest sector	Timber; Nontimber Forest Products (NTFP)	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Companies	FMU's	Producer; Processor 	Mixed methods	"Used company data including management plans, socioeconomic studies and relevant written policies. Focus groups, questions asked of staff and families, social transects and structured interviews"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported				Data Reported			Data Reported							
G15-10140	"Cerutti, P. O.; Lescuyer, G.; Tsanga, R.; Kassa, S. N.; Mapangou, P. R.; Mendoula, E. E.; Missamba-Lola, A. P.; Nasi, R.; Eckebil, P. P. T.; Yembe, R. Y."	2014	Social impacts of the Forest Stewardship Council certification: an assessment in the Congo basin	"This Occasional Paper assessed the social performance of nine forest management units (FMU) certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and compared it with the performance of nine similar non-certified FMUs in Cameroon, the Republic of the Congo and Gabon. Results showed that the longer one company remained in one place, the deeper social relations with the neighbouring population became. This in itself is conducive to an environment in which there is less conflict between the local population and logging companies. However, it is usually only after companies decided to pursue certification that several practical social improvements occurred. In particular, in certified FMUs, this study found better working and living conditions for workers and their families; more inclusive and better governed institutions for negotiations between the local population and logging companies, except with regard to conflict-resolution mechanisms; better managed and more effective benefit-sharing mechanisms; and innovative ways of dealing with problems related to infringement of customary uses. The complex historical and political-economic reality in which certification has developed in the Congo basin might well make issues of attribution and causality difficult to clarify. Further, results help establish a clear boundary that currently exists between certified and non-certified timber. The former is sourced in FMUs that implement not only legally mandated social standards but also voluntarily adopted ones that are superior and more effective. There should of course be no complacency from the FSC or logging companies with certified FMUs in comparing themselves with the 'bottom,' as the logic of the FSC is to reward more responsible forest managers who are assessed against ever-evolving standards, irrespective of the quality of national legislation. However, one should also not forget that companies with certified FMUs in the study countries are competing less against a theoretical global logging company than against their neighbours, who daily produce the same species and sell on similar markets, albeit with much lower investments, especially those targeted to improve social performance. In this very competitive and uneven playing field, and with the scarce price premiums obtained so far, the evidence presented indicates that certification in the Congo basin has been able to push companies toward remarkable social progress."	CIFOR Occasional Paper   58-pp 	 Democratic Republic of the Congo	" -4.266667, 15.283333"	Forest sector	Timber; Nontimber Forest Products (NTFP)	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Companies	FMU's	Producer; Processor 	Mixed methods	"Used company data including management plans, socioeconomic studies and relevant written policies. Focus groups, questions asked of staff and families, social transects and structured interviews"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported				Data Reported			Data Reported							
464	"Childs, John"	2014	A new means of governing artisanal and small-scale mining? Fairtrade gold and development in Tanzania	"This paper offers a critical analysis of the most contemporary development intervention concerned with ameliorating the problems of Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM) in sub-Saharan Africa, namely the emergence of Fairtrade Gold. Through an analysis of Fairtrade Gold in Tanzania, this paper argues that despite Fairtrade's promises to ASM operators of better prices, its potential efficacy is compromised by the informality of local gold markets and a deeply-rooted mistrust of development intervention more broadly. However, its greatest contribution may lie elsewhere in the drive for a social and environmental justice framework that privileges increased recognition for small-scale gold miners in the global South. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	Resources Policy 40  128-136 DOI:10.1016/j.resourpol.2014.01.007	Tanzania	"-8.252778, 38.6775"	Mining	Gold	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Country-wide	Miners	Producer	Interviews 	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported			Data Reported										
65	"Chiputwa, B.; Qaim, M."	2016	"Sustainability standards, gender, and nutrition among smallholder farmers in Uganda"		The Journal of Development Studies    	Uganda	"0.827100, 32.627700"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic; UTZ 	Smallholders	Households	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported																			
G04	"Chiputwa, Brian; Spielman, David J.; Qaim, Matin"	2015	"Food Standards, Certification, and Poverty among Coffee Farmers in Uganda"		World Development 66  400-412 DOI:10.1016/j.worlddev.2014.09.006	Uganda	"0.347596, 32.582520"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; UTZ 	Smallholders	Co-operatives; Farming groups	Producer	Mixed methods	Household surveys and interviews	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported					Data Reported													
8894	"Colen L., Maertens M. , Swinnen J. "	2012	" Private standards, trade and poverty: GlobalGAP and horticultural employment in Senegal."	"There is a growing body of literature that analyses the implications of private food standards for developing countries. Most of this literature has focused on the trade effects of standards and on the effects on exporters and producers. Very few studies have looked at the effect of standards for workers in export supply chains - although this is important for poverty reduction. In this paper, we use original panel data from surveys among workers in the horticultural export industry in Senegal to analyse the effects of GlobalGAP certification of exporter-producer companies on the employment conditions of workers in these companies. The results suggest that GlobalGAP certification is associated with an increase in workers' daily wages and with longer employment periods. We put forward different explanations for the mechanism through which these effects on employment conditions can emerge. "	"The World Economy. Special Issue: NTMs, agricultural and food trade, and competitiveness., 35, 1073-1088. http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9701.2012.01463.x"	Senegal 	"14.4974, 14.4524"	Horticulture	Mango; Green beans	GLOBALG.A.P	Companies and households	Companies and employees	Processor	Mixed methods	Surveys and Interviews	Matched (Not stated)	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported					Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported									
RG25	COSA (Committee on Sustainability Assessment )	2013	Rainforest Alliance Certification on Cocoa Farms in Cote d'Ivoire.		Rainforest alliance report 2012    	Cote d'Ivoire	"7.540000, -5.547100"	Cocoa	Cocoa	Rainforest Alliance	Farms	Farmers 	Producer	Other	452 farm vists	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
RG24	"COSA (Committee on Sustainability Assessment ); University of Ghana, Institute of Statistical Social and Economic Research (ISSER), University of Ghana"	2012	Cocoa Farms in Ghana: An evaluation of the impacts of UTZ certification on the sustainability of Smallholder		COSA/ISSER Report    	Ghana	"6.959500, -2.027300"	Cocoa	Cocoa	UTZ 	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Pre-post 	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported								Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported							Data Reported	Data Reported	
12694	"Crow S.,  Danks C. "	2010	"Why certify? Motivations, outcomes and the importance if facilitating organizations in certification of community-based forestry initiatives. "	"Despite documented challenges, many community-based forestry (CBF) initiatives pursue forest certification. This study asked community-based forestry practitioners in Vermont what influenced their decisions to seek or not seek certification and what outcomes were realized from certification. Relationships, public image, value alignment and feedback on management practices were most commonly cited as both motivations for and results of certification. Expectations for economic benefits were low and price premiums for products were only occasionally realized. Informants complained of the increasing cost, complexity and time commitment required of certification. Overall, however, certified CBF informants felt certification was worth the expense. Group certificates and external funding significantly reduced certification costs to grassroots CBF initiatives. This study highlights the importance of facilitating organizations that can provide outreach, secure funding, understand the rules, handle documentation and develop markets for certified products. √•¬© 2010 Steve Harrison, John Herbohn."	"Small-scale Forestry, 9, 195-211. DOI: 10.1007/s11842-010-9110-6"	USA	"44.5588, -72.5778"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Smallholders	Farmers	Producer	Interviews (freeform)		Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported						
9554	"Cubbage, F.; Diaz, D.; Yapura, P.; Dube, F."	2010	Impacts of forest management certification in Argentina and Chile	"Individuals at ten firms in Argentina and Chile that had received Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or Sistema Chileno de CertificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn Forestal (CERTFOR) forest management certification were interviewed to determine the management, environmental, social, and economic impacts of certification. All firms improved many practices in forest management, environmental protection, community relations, public affairs, economic, and environmental management systems in order to receive certification, with an average of 27 changes reported per firm that received forest certification. The amount of changes were fairly evenly distributed among forest management practices, social and legal aspects, and economic and system impacts. Most firms certified by FSC received several conditions or corrective action requests, but these represented only about one-third of the 27 changes those firms made to receive or maintain certification. Certification appeared to prompt similar changes in Argentina and Chile, and with FSC and CERTFOR. Certified firms usually hired only one or two new employees for certification, but did shift job responsibilities so that about 5% to 10% of personnel time was spent on certification. Individuals at interviewed firms were generally very satisfied with certification and all firms except one intended to re-certify. SPANISH: A fin de determinar los impactos de la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn sobre el manejo forestal en relaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn a aspectos ecolỲÄ∞√õ√ìgicos, econỲÄ∞√õ√ìmicos y sociales fueron entrevistadas con diez empresas en Argentina y Chile que recibieron la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn de Manejo Forestal Sustentable del Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) o Sistema Chileno de CertificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn Forestal (CERTFOR). Todas las empresas mejoraron sus prỲÄ∞√õ√Åcticas de manejo forestal, de protecciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn ambiental, sus relaciones con la comunidad y con el p¬Å√íblico, su economỲÄ∞√õ¬™a y sus sistemas de manejo ambiental a fin de recibir la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn forestal, con un promedio de 27 cambios informados por cada firma que obtuvo la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn. La cantidad de cambios estuvo uniformemente distribuida entre las prỲÄ∞√õ√Åcticas de manejo forestal, los aspectos sociales y legales, y los aspectos econỲÄ∞√õ√ìmicos y de planificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn. La mayorỲÄ∞√õ¬™a de las firmas certificadas por FSC recibieron tambi_n varias solicitudes de acciones correctivas, pero _stas representan sỲÄ∞√õ√ìlo un tercio del total de 27 cambios realizados por estas empresas para recibir o mantener la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn. La certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn parece haber generado similar n¬Å√ímero de cambios en Argentina y Chile, ya sea FSC o CERTFOR. Alrededor 5% hasta 10% del tiempo de los empleados fue ganado con certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn forestal. Las personas entrevistadas en las empresas se encontraban por lo general satisfechas con la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn y excepto una de las empresas, el resto de ellas proyectaban renovar la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn forestal. √•¬© 2010 Elsevier B.V."	Forest Policy and Economics 12  497-504 DOI:10.1016/j.forpol.2010.06.004	Argentina	"-34.6037, -58.3816"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); Sistema Chileno de Certificacion Forestal (CERTFOR)	Firms	Firm owners; Workers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews (broad, likert and binary) with managers and audit/management data"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported				Data Reported	
9554	"Cubbage, F.; Diaz, D.; Yapura, P.; Dube, F."	2010	Impacts of forest management certification in Argentina and Chile	"Individuals at ten firms in Argentina and Chile that had received Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or Sistema Chileno de CertificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn Forestal (CERTFOR) forest management certification were interviewed to determine the management, environmental, social, and economic impacts of certification. All firms improved many practices in forest management, environmental protection, community relations, public affairs, economic, and environmental management systems in order to receive certification, with an average of 27 changes reported per firm that received forest certification. The amount of changes were fairly evenly distributed among forest management practices, social and legal aspects, and economic and system impacts. Most firms certified by FSC received several conditions or corrective action requests, but these represented only about one-third of the 27 changes those firms made to receive or maintain certification. Certification appeared to prompt similar changes in Argentina and Chile, and with FSC and CERTFOR. Certified firms usually hired only one or two new employees for certification, but did shift job responsibilities so that about 5% to 10% of personnel time was spent on certification. Individuals at interviewed firms were generally very satisfied with certification and all firms except one intended to re-certify. SPANISH: A fin de determinar los impactos de la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn sobre el manejo forestal en relaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn a aspectos ecolỲÄ∞√õ√ìgicos, econỲÄ∞√õ√ìmicos y sociales fueron entrevistadas con diez empresas en Argentina y Chile que recibieron la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn de Manejo Forestal Sustentable del Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) o Sistema Chileno de CertificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn Forestal (CERTFOR). Todas las empresas mejoraron sus prỲÄ∞√õ√Åcticas de manejo forestal, de protecciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn ambiental, sus relaciones con la comunidad y con el p¬Å√íblico, su economỲÄ∞√õ¬™a y sus sistemas de manejo ambiental a fin de recibir la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn forestal, con un promedio de 27 cambios informados por cada firma que obtuvo la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn. La cantidad de cambios estuvo uniformemente distribuida entre las prỲÄ∞√õ√Åcticas de manejo forestal, los aspectos sociales y legales, y los aspectos econỲÄ∞√õ√ìmicos y de planificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn. La mayorỲÄ∞√õ¬™a de las firmas certificadas por FSC recibieron tambi_n varias solicitudes de acciones correctivas, pero _stas representan sỲÄ∞√õ√ìlo un tercio del total de 27 cambios realizados por estas empresas para recibir o mantener la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn. La certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn parece haber generado similar n¬Å√ímero de cambios en Argentina y Chile, ya sea FSC o CERTFOR. Alrededor 5% hasta 10% del tiempo de los empleados fue ganado con certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn forestal. Las personas entrevistadas en las empresas se encontraban por lo general satisfechas con la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn y excepto una de las empresas, el resto de ellas proyectaban renovar la certificaciỲÄ∞√õ√ìn forestal. √•¬© 2010 Elsevier B.V."	Forest Policy and Economics 12  497-504 DOI:10.1016/j.forpol.2010.06.004	Chile	"-33.4489, -70.6693"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); Sistema Chileno de Certificacion Forestal (CERTFOR)	Firms	Firm owners; Workers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews (broad, likert and binary) with managers and audit/management data"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported				Data Reported	
6458	Domagala-Swiatkiewicz I.;  Gastol M.	2013	Soil chemical properties under organic and conventional crop management systems in south Poland	"There is a great need to assess the impact of farming methods on soil fertility, especially in specific ecoregions. In Poland, relatively limited research has been conducted on soil quality and fertility in organic, dynamically developing agricultural systems. A comparative study on soil parameters under organic and conventional cultivation was performed in 2009. Twenty-two pairs (organic-conventional) of fields located in the south and east of Poland were chosen. All organic sites were certified. The following field crops were investigated: apple, pear, blackcurrant, carrot, beetroot, and celery. The soil granulometric composition, total organic content, total nitrogen, as well as the content of available macroelements (P, K, Ca, Mg, S), microelements (Cu, Fe, Zn, Mn, B), and trace elements (Cd and Pb) were measured. The organic farm soils had a higher level of the total organic matter (2.02%) than the conventional (1.75%). The organic system increased the total soil N level in celery and beetroot fields. Low or very low concentrations of available P in organically managed orchards were observed in individual farms, whereas excessive soil P amounts were noted for organic beetroot and celery fields. Differences in soil K concentration caused by the farming system were found only for red beet. Ca concentration was higher in the conventional than in the organic soil only for celery. There was a higher soil available Cu concentration for all of the investigated conventional vegetable fields than for the organic. The reverse was true for the apple and blackcurrant farms. The highest levels of Cd and Pb were noted in soils sampled from some organic celery fields. √•¬© 2013 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC."	Biological Agriculture and Horticulture 29  43462 DOI:10.1080/01448765.2013.748362	Poland	"51.892700, 21.002200"	Fruit	Fruit	Organic	Farms	Individua Farm Fields 	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																					Data Reported			
6458	Domagala-Swiatkiewicz I.;  Gastol M.	2013	Soil chemical properties under organic and conventional crop management systems in south Poland	"There is a great need to assess the impact of farming methods on soil fertility, especially in specific ecoregions. In Poland, relatively limited research has been conducted on soil quality and fertility in organic, dynamically developing agricultural systems. A comparative study on soil parameters under organic and conventional cultivation was performed in 2009. Twenty-two pairs (organic-conventional) of fields located in the south and east of Poland were chosen. All organic sites were certified. The following field crops were investigated: apple, pear, blackcurrant, carrot, beetroot, and celery. The soil granulometric composition, total organic content, total nitrogen, as well as the content of available macroelements (P, K, Ca, Mg, S), microelements (Cu, Fe, Zn, Mn, B), and trace elements (Cd and Pb) were measured. The organic farm soils had a higher level of the total organic matter (2.02%) than the conventional (1.75%). The organic system increased the total soil N level in celery and beetroot fields. Low or very low concentrations of available P in organically managed orchards were observed in individual farms, whereas excessive soil P amounts were noted for organic beetroot and celery fields. Differences in soil K concentration caused by the farming system were found only for red beet. Ca concentration was higher in the conventional than in the organic soil only for celery. There was a higher soil available Cu concentration for all of the investigated conventional vegetable fields than for the organic. The reverse was true for the apple and blackcurrant farms. The highest levels of Cd and Pb were noted in soils sampled from some organic celery fields. √•¬© 2013 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC."	Biological Agriculture and Horticulture 29  43462 DOI:10.1080/01448765.2013.748362	Poland	"51.892700, 21.002200"	Vegetables	Vegetables	Organic	Farms	Individua Farm Fields 	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																					Data Reported			
2269	"Donovan, J.; Poole, N."	2014	Partnerships in Fairtrade coffee: a close-up look at how buyers and NGOs build supply capacity in Nicaragua	"This paper examines efforts by buyers and NGOs to build the supply of Fairtrade coffee from the Nicaragua-based cooperative Soppexcca following the coffee crisis. Support was aimed at transforming Soppexcca into a viable business, able to respond to the needs of its coffee-farming members. Results show that Soppexcca made significant gains, including expansion of infrastructure, growth in membership, and increased financial stability. However, important issues remained, related to democratic governance, future growth and stability, and the provision of services. Results suggest that advances in building cooperatives do not easily translate into increased capacities at the household level. While some important gains were detected, in general, producers struggled to intensify coffee production and take full advantage of their access to preferential markets. This paper makes a plea for deeper discussions about how buyers and NGOs can more effectively contribute to building the supply of high-quality Fairtrade coffee, and the need for increased coordination and mutual learning as part of the process."	Special Issue: The impact of fairtrade. 4  34-48 	Nicaragua	"12.1150, -86.2362"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-operatives	Farmers 	Producer 	Mixed methods	"Interviews, Sales data"	Matched 	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported				Data Reported									
1837	"Dorr, Andrea Cristina; Grote, Ulrike"	2009	The role of certification in the Brazilian fruit sector	"Certification systems play an important role in any market that is burdened with a high degree of information asymmetry and quality uncertainty. Thus, producers and exporters of fresh fruit in developing countries like Brazil are increasingly required to demonstrate the safety and traceability of their produce up to the consumption stage. This paper aims at presenting a comparative analysis of the different certification schemes applied to fruit production in Brazil. A survey of 303 grape and mango farmers was conducted in 2006 in the Juazeiro and Petrolina regions of the SỲÄ∞√õ_o Francisco Valley. The results of the certification schemes adopted by grape farmers show that GlobalGAP certified ones have higher productivity. The income of farmers with one certificate is higher than that of those with two certificates. The comparative analysis of small and medium farms concludes that there is no evidence of the marginalization of small farmers. apresentam um alto nỲÄ∞√õ¬™vel da assimetria de informa√å¬§ỲÄ∞√õ_o e incerteza na qualidade. Por isso, produtores e exportadores de frutas frescas de paỲÄ∞√õ¬™ses em desenvolvimento como o Brasil sỲÄ∞√õ_o constantemente requisitados a demonstrar seguran√å¬§a e rastreabilidade da produ√å¬§ỲÄ∞√õ_o at_ o estỲÄ∞√õ√Ågio final de consumo. Este artigo tem como objetivo apresentar uma anỲÄ∞√õ√Ålise comparativa dos diferentes sistemas de certifica√å¬§ỲÄ∞√õ_o existentes na fruticultura no Brasil. A coleta de dados primỲÄ∞√õ√Årios com 303 produtores de uva e manga foi conduzida em 2006 na regiỲÄ∞√õ_o de Juazeiro e Petrolina no Vale do SỲÄ∞√õ_o Francisco. Os resultados mostram que produtores de uva que sỲÄ∞√õ_o certificados com GlobalGAP t√å¬ªm maior produtividade. A renda dos produtores com um certificado _ maior que a dos que possuem dois certificados. A ỲÄ∞√õ√Ånalise comparativa das pequenas e m_dias propriedades conclui que nỲÄ∞√õ_o hỲÄ∞√õ√Å evid√å¬ªncia de marginaliza√å¬§ỲÄ∞√õ_o de pequenos produtores."	Revista de Economia ContemporỲÄ∞√õ¬°nea 13  539-571 	Brazil	"-26.249100, -48.634600"	Fruit	Grapes; Mango	GLOBALG.A.P	Farms	Farmers 	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported							
9622	"Duchelle, Amy E.; Kainer, Karen A.; Wadt, Lucia H. O."	2014	Is Certification Associated with Better Forest Management and Socioeconomic Benefits? A Comparative Analysis of Three Certification Schemes Applied to Brazil Nuts in Western Amazonia	"Nontimber forest product (NTFP) certification has potential to promote sustainable harvest and to bolster rural livelihoods. This research compares environmental and socioeconomic benefits of Brazil nut certification for 231 producers in 17 communities in the trinational border region of Bolivia, Brazil, and Peru during the 2006-2007 harvest. Specific objectives were: (1) to analyze differences in ""best management practices"" between certified and noncertified producers; (2) to identify socioeconomic benefits associated with certified nuts; and (3) to explore producer perceptions of nut certification. Organic and Fairtrade certification were associated with better postharvest practices and higher prices, while Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification was related to preharvest planning. Certification was viewed most positively in Bolivia, where producers gleaned financial and social benefits, moderately in Peru, and least positively in Brazil, where benefits were lower or nonexistent. Partnerships with cooperatives, donors, government, and nongovernmental organizations were essential to maximize conservation and development objectives."	Society & Natural Resources 27  121-139 	Brazil	"-10.963488, -69.557771"	Nuts	Brazil nut	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Per-country	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported					Data Reported							Data Reported
9622	"Duchelle, Amy E.; Kainer, Karen A.; Wadt, Lucia H. O."	2014	Is Certification Associated with Better Forest Management and Socioeconomic Benefits? A Comparative Analysis of Three Certification Schemes Applied to Brazil Nuts in Western Amazonia	"Nontimber forest product (NTFP) certification has potential to promote sustainable harvest and to bolster rural livelihoods. This research compares environmental and socioeconomic benefits of Brazil nut certification for 231 producers in 17 communities in the trinational border region of Bolivia, Brazil, and Peru during the 2006-2007 harvest. Specific objectives were: (1) to analyze differences in ""best management practices"" between certified and noncertified producers; (2) to identify socioeconomic benefits associated with certified nuts; and (3) to explore producer perceptions of nut certification. Organic and Fairtrade certification were associated with better postharvest practices and higher prices, while Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification was related to preharvest planning. Certification was viewed most positively in Bolivia, where producers gleaned financial and social benefits, moderately in Peru, and least positively in Brazil, where benefits were lower or nonexistent. Partnerships with cooperatives, donors, government, and nongovernmental organizations were essential to maximize conservation and development objectives."	Society & Natural Resources 27  121-139 	Bolivia	"-10.963488, -69.557771"	Nuts	Brazil nut	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Per-country	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported					Data Reported							Data Reported
9622	"Duchelle, Amy E.; Kainer, Karen A.; Wadt, Lucia H. O."	2014	Is Certification Associated with Better Forest Management and Socioeconomic Benefits? A Comparative Analysis of Three Certification Schemes Applied to Brazil Nuts in Western Amazonia	"Nontimber forest product (NTFP) certification has potential to promote sustainable harvest and to bolster rural livelihoods. This research compares environmental and socioeconomic benefits of Brazil nut certification for 231 producers in 17 communities in the trinational border region of Bolivia, Brazil, and Peru during the 2006-2007 harvest. Specific objectives were: (1) to analyze differences in ""best management practices"" between certified and noncertified producers; (2) to identify socioeconomic benefits associated with certified nuts; and (3) to explore producer perceptions of nut certification. Organic and Fairtrade certification were associated with better postharvest practices and higher prices, while Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification was related to preharvest planning. Certification was viewed most positively in Bolivia, where producers gleaned financial and social benefits, moderately in Peru, and least positively in Brazil, where benefits were lower or nonexistent. Partnerships with cooperatives, donors, government, and nongovernmental organizations were essential to maximize conservation and development objectives."	Society & Natural Resources 27  121-139 	Peru	"-10.963488, -69.557772"	Nuts	Brazil nut	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Per-country	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported					Data Reported							Data Reported
5440	Eduardo Mello Mazzoleni; Jorge Madeira Nogueira	2006	Organic agriculture: basic characteristics of producers	"Characteristics, potential and limitations of various types of socio-environmental certification for agroforestry systems. Organic agriculture is still inexpressive in Brazil. Its relevance, however, has been growing significantly, following international trends. This study analyzes basic characteristics of organic producers, contributing to the present level of knowledge on this matter in Brazil. Using primary data on organic farmers of a region close to Curitiba, in the southern state of Paran√°, we identify their main personal, technical and economic characteristics. Our sample farmers were divided into two groups: farmers in the stage of conversion toward organic agriculture and farmers already certified as organic producers. Results indicate the influence of the education level and of  their professional experiences as key elements to characterize organic producers. Other relevant aspects are labor availability and integration of farming, livestock and forest activities."	Rev. Econ. Sociol. Rural vol.44 no.2 Bras√≠lia Apr./June 2006 http://dx.doi.org/10.1590/S0103-20032006000200006  	Brazil	"-25.436206, -49.269887"	Agriculture	Various	Organic	Individual		Producer			matched certified and in process of conversion	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported											
11992	"Elder, Sara D.; Zerriffi, Hisham; Le Billon, Philippe"	2012	Effects of Fair Trade Certification on Social Capital: The Case of Rwandan Coffee Producers	"Fair Trade certification may have important social effects on small-scale producers but empirical evidence is limited. We conducted logistic regressions using data from a 2009 survey of Rwandan coffee farmers to estimate the link between Fair Trade and social capital-measured as farmer trust and participation-while controlling for various other factors that could influence social capital, particularly membership in a cooperative organization. The results show a negative association between Fair Trade and farmer trust in cooperative leadership and a positive association with a perceived higher level of participation of women. Social capital is linked most significantly to farmers' interaction with their neighbors. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	World Development 40  2355-2367 	Rwanda	"-1.970600, 30.104400"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade ; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Household Surveys. Interviews, Modeling"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported					Data Reported							Data Reported												
6459	"Ernah, Parvathi P., Waibel H."	2016	Adoption of sustainable palm oil practices by Indonesian smallholder farmers.	"The Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) was introduced as a mandatory sustainability standard for large oil palm producers in 2011. While these standards are voluntary for smallholder farmers, some of their crop management practices may converge with ISPO principles. Hence, this study investigates oil palm practices among smallholder farmers in Merangin district in Jambi province, Sumatra. We draw upon a three-year panel data set of 233 oil palm smallholder farmers. We assess the factors that explain the use of these practices first by means of a bivariate probit model for a sequence of practices defined as implementation thresholds. Second we apply a count model to examine the intensity of ISPO practices. Results show that the use of ISPO-type crop management practices is not widespread among oil palm smallholders. Sixty per cent of the farmers used four practices, and this share drops to 40 per cent for six practices. Among the factors that determine the use of practices were household characteristics, economic shocks and farmers' perceived risk of diminishing oil palm productivity. This study provides a basis for developing an extension strategy of introducing ISPO practices for oil palm smallholders."	"Journal of Southeast Asian Economies, 33, 291-316. DOI: 10.1355/ae33-3b https://bookshop.iseas.edu.sg/publication/1943"	Indonesia	"0.7893, 113.9213"	Palm Oil	Palm oil	ISPO (Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil Standard)	Smallholders	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	Surveys and Interviews	Matched	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported		
2322	"Estevez, C. L.; Bhat, M. G.; Bray, D. B."	2017	"Commodity chains, institutions, and domestic policies of organic and fair trade coffee in Bolivia"	"Fair trade and organic coffee are alternative production and trade systems designed to promote the equitable and environmentally sustainable production of coffee. The purpose of this study is to analyze the functioning of different coffee supply chains in Bolivia and find policy changes necessary to sustain specialty coffee production in that country. Based on the primary and secondary data collected from various market functionaries, we find that the Bolivian coffee growers and other intermediaries have benefited financially from participating in fair trade and organic markets. However, the producers continue to face challenges, including increasing costs of production, stagnant premium, price floors, and declining yield. Institutional reforms within the supply chain and greater support from the government are necessary to ensure a better functioning Bolivian market. The government should also prioritize certified coffee as a part of its national food sovereignty agenda since Bolivians consume increasing amounts of high-quality coffees. √•¬© 2017 Taylor & Francis"	Agroecology and Sustainable Food Systems   299-327 DOI:10.1080/21683565.2017.1359737	Bolivia	"-16.489700, -68.119300"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives	Co-operatives	Producer	Mixed methods	"Household surveys, Interviews (Freeform)"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported			Data Reported										
4444	"Fernandez-Cornejo J., Greene C., Penn R., Newton D."	1998	Organic vegetable production in the U.S.: Certified growers and their practices.	"Organic farming systems differ fundamentally from conventional ones in their primary focus on management practices that promote and enhance ecological harmony. Organic farmers also tend to have a different socioeconomic profile. In this study, average socioeconomic characteristics and production practices of a national sample of about 300 certified organic vegetable growers from 14 states in USA are summarized and compared to a sample of about 6900 conventional vegetable growers. Specific materials used by organic growers for pest and nutrient management are described. Organic vegetable growers tend to be younger, more educated, less experienced in farming, and less likely to have grown up on a farm than conventional vegetable growers, and tend to operate smaller farms. Over three-quarters of the organic vegetable growers surveyed had small operations (<10 acres) and worked fewer days in off-farm jobs than conventional small growers. In contrast to conventional marketing practices, nearly half the surveyed organic growers, and the majority of small ones, marketed their vegetables directly to consumers through farmers' markets and other direct marketing channels. Organic growers relied primarily on traditional organic processes such as green manuring (legumes), animal manuring, composting and crop rotation to supply crop nutrients, and on cultural and biological tools, including pest-resistant plant cultivars, water management techniques, adjustment of planting and harvesting dates and beneficial organisms, for pest management. Animal meal, fish products and lime were the most frequently reported supplemental nutrient sources (14, 20 and 28%, respectively, used these materials). Pyrellin EC and petroleum-based soaps were the most frequently reported supplemental pest management materials (used by 6 and 8%, respectively). The pest and nutrient materials used by organic growers were generally consistent with current guidelines of major certification organizations that provide services to organic growers. There was high consistency among those guidelines and national recommendations for most of these materials."	American Journal of Alternative Agriculture 13: 69-78. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0889189300007694	USA	"38.9072, -77.0369"	Vegetables	Vegetables	Organic	Farms	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	Survey and government data	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported				Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	
1066	"Fikadu, Mitiku; Mey, Y. de; Nyssen, J.; Maertens, M."	2017	Do private sustainability standards contribute to income growth and poverty alleviation? A comparison of different coffee certification schemes in Ethiopia	"Private sustainability standards are increasingly important in food trade with developing countries, but the implications for smallholder farmers are still poorly understood. We analyze the implications of different coffee certification schemes in Ethiopia using cross-sectional survey data, and regression and propensity-score-matching techniques. We find that: Rainforest Alliance (RA) and double Fairtrade-Organic (FT-Org) certifications are associated with higher incomes and reduced poverty, mainly because of higher prices; Fairtrade (FT) certification hardly affects welfare; and Organic (Org) certification reduces incomes, chiefly due to lower yields. Cooperative heterogeneity importantly shapes these results. Results imply that private standards may not always deliver what they promise to consumers."	Sustainability (Switzerland) 9  246-246 DOI:10.3390/su9020246	Ethiopia	"7.4000000, 36.2333300"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic; Rainforest Alliance; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives	Farms	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported									Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported 							
11436	"Forster, Dionys; Andres, Christian; Verma, Rajeev; Zundel, Christine; Messmer, Monika M.; M_der, Paul"	2013	Yield and Economic Performance of Organic and Conventional Cotton-Based Farming Systems. Results from a Field Trial in India		PLoS ONE 8 12 e81039 DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0081039	India	"22.973400, 78.656900"	Textiles	Cotton	Organic	Farms; Smallholders	Smallholdings; Farms	Producer	Mixed methods	"Field Experiments, Household surveys"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
4144	"Foster, B. C.; Wang, D.; Keeton, W. S."	2008	"An exploratory, post-harvest comparison of ecological and economic characteristics of forest stewardship council certified and uncertified Northern hardwood stands"	"As more forest entities worldwide consider pursuing Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification, a critical question remains on whether stand-level management impacts differ between certified and uncertified forests. To begin to answer this question, we measured forest structure on three FSC-certified stands, three uncertified stands, and six adjacent unharvested reference stands (12 stands total) composed primarily of sugar maple (Acer saccharum) on non-industrial private properties in central Vermont, USA. The certified and uncertified partial harvests reduced total tree biomass and live tree carbon storage by one-third compared to reconstructed pre-harvest conditions. Both treatments also contained significantly lower densities of saplings and some mid-size trees compared to non-harvested references due to similar impacts from harvesting. The net present value of merchantable sugar maple over 10 year projections was consistently lower on certified than uncertified stands, but this difference was insignificant at discount rates from 4-8%. The certified stands contained significantly greater total residual volumes of coarse woody debris (standing and downed) than uncertified stands, although the debris was smaller than that found in unmanaged mature forests. Overall, our data suggest that FSC-certified harvested stands in northern hardwood forests have similar sugar maple timber value, aboveground live tree carbon storage value, similar live tree structure, and greater residual coarse woody debris than uncertified harvested stands. √•¬© 2008 by The Haworth Press. All rights reserved."	Journal of Sustainable Forestry 26  171-191 DOI:10.1080/10549810701879701	USA	"44.558800, -72.577800"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Smallholders	Privatly owned forest stands	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported												
8022	"Galati, A.; Gianguzzi, G.; Tinervia, S.; Crescimanno, M.; La Mela Veca, D. S."	2017	"Motivations, adoption and impact of voluntary environmental certification in the Italian Forest based industry: The case of the FSC standard"	"Over the past few years several private voluntary schemes have been developed worldwide to address the environmental issues in the forest based industry. Using survey data, this study analyse the main factors motivating companies operating in the Italian forest based industry to implement FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) standard, as a tool to promote responsible forest management and traceability of derived products, and the impact of this standard on the economic and organisational results. The findings provide evidences that signalling mechanisms drive the entrepreneurs towards the adoption of FSC certification, followed by moral and ethical reasons. In terms of impact, emerges that companies are compared to higher operation costs necessary to obtain the certification of compliance with the scheme requirements, that are only partially compensated, not by an increase in the selling price of certified products, but by the company's ability to establish new business relationships with a consequent increase in the sales. √•¬© 2017 Elsevier B.V."	Forest Policy and Economics 83  169-176 DOI:10.1016/j.forpol.2017.08.002	Italy	"41.9028, 12.4964"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Companies	Companies	Producer; Processor	Online surveys ; Questionnaire	Questions informed by other literature. Included binary and likert-type questions	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported					Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported								
RG13	"Garcia C., Ochoa G., Garcia J., Mora J. & Castellanos J  "	2014	Use of Polychoric Indexes to Measure the Impact of Seven Sustainability Programs on Coffee Growers' Livelihood in Colombia		"Report, Centre for Regional Coffee and Entrepreneurial Research, Manizales, Colombia    "	Colombia	"5.1, -75.55; 2.998611, -75.304444"	Coffee	Coffee	UTZ 	Farms	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	Quantitative survey + interviews	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported						Data Reported	Data Reported	
12787	"Garcia C., Ochoa G., Garcia J., Mora J.; Castellanos J"	2014	Impact Evaluation of UTZ Certified Coffee Program in Colombia. (2008-2012).		"CRECE, Manizales, Colombia. 25th International Conference on Coffee Science, ASIC 2014, Armenia, Colombia, 8-13 September 2015    "	Colombia	"4.7110, -74.0721"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic;Rainforest Alliance; UTZ; Nespresso AAA; 4C; Cafe practices	Farms	Farmers 	Producer 	Mixed methods	Longitudinal and panel data(N/A)	Matched 	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported 		Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported			
9028	"Gibbon, Peter; Lin, Yumiao; Jones, Sam"	2009	Revenue effects of participation in smallholder organic cocoa production in tropical Africa: a case study		DIIS Working Paper.  ISBN:978-87-7605-324-7    	Uganda	"0.707500, 30.063600"	Cocoa	Cocoa	Organic	Households	Households	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, Questionnaire, Modelling"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported													
9028	"Gibbon, Peter; Lin, Yumiao; Jones, Sam"	2009	Revenue effects of participation in smallholder organic cocoa production in tropical Africa: a case study		DIIS Working Paper.  ISBN:978-87-7605-324-7    	Uganda	"0.707500, 30.063600"	Spice	 Vanilla	Organic	Households	Households	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, Questionnaire, Modelling"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported													
1645	"Gitter, Seth R.; Weber, Jeremy G.; Barham, Bradford L.; Callenes, Mercedez; Valentine, Jessa Lewis"	2012	"Fair Trade-Organic Coffee Cooperatives, Migration, and Secondary Schooling in Southern Mexico"	"We explore three trends in rural southern Mexico (Fair Trade coffee, migration, and conditional cash transfers) that could explain the rapid rise in education from 1995-2005 using survey data from 845 coffee farming households in Oaxaca and Chiapas, Mexico. Results from a household fixed-effects model show that household participation in a Fair Trade-organic cooperative contributed to about a 0.7 year increase in schooling for girls. US migration opportunities appear to have even stronger positive impacts on schooling for females. Although participation in Fair Trade-organic cooperatives appears also to have increased male schooling, increased migration opportunities have had an indeterminate effect for males."	Journal of Development Studies 48  445-463 	Mexico 	"17.0594, -96.7216;16.7569, -93.1292"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade ; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Smallholders	Households	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Pre-post 	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported						Data Reported													
5578	"Gliessman, S. R.; Werner, M. R.; Swezey, S. L.; Caswell, E.; Cochran, J.; Rosada-May, F."	1996	Conversion to organic strawberry management changes ecological processes	"A three-year comparison of conventional (guidelines recommended by UC Cooperative Extension) and organic (in accordance with the California Health and Safety Code Section 2659.11-.17 and the California Certified Organic Farmers guidelines and enforcement provisions) strawberry (cv. Chandler) production systems on the coast north of Santa Cruz was carried out during 1987-90 in a field where strawberries had not been grown before. Slower plant growth, lower yields and increased labour requirements were observed in the organic system. Little economically important pest damage, no nutrient deficiencies, an increase in naturally occurring predators and higher numbers of beneficial nematodes were also observed in the organic system. Although yields were significantly lower in the organic system in all three years, price premiums for organic fruits permitted favourable returns."	California Agriculture 50  24-31 DOI:10.3733/ca.v050n01p24	USA	"36.974100, -122.030800"	Fruit	Strawberry	Organic	Farms	Farms	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported											Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported			
8181	"Gumercindo √Ålvarez Moreno; Rodr√≠guez Garcia, Roselyn; Flores Montano, Amelia"	2012	Effects of certification on aloe vera industry competitiveness in Mexico	" Aloe Vera is the base of a very lucrative business around the world, in which Mexico participates as the main Aloe Vera raw materials producer and exporter country. For the perishable nature of Aloe Vera raw materials, they go under a stabilization process that fulfils the final consumer requirements. Many of the companies certify their raw materials, processes and final products in order to guarantee to the final consumer the origin, purity, and product content, besides the ethical strictness of their promotional and commercial information. The certifying council (International Aloe Science Council) express in their promotion that certified companies are more competitive than those that don't certify their products. However, since the lack of evidences of this fact and the high cost that represents this certification for the small companies, a study was made to determine through the consultation of the Aloe Vera industry directives in Mexico, if such effect is perceived. The study information was obtained by means of questionnaires and interviews with directive of companies of Tamaulipas, Yucatan, Durango and the Texas's Valley.The results showed that the factors with more impact in the competitiveness of Aloe Vera industry in Mexico are product quality and capacity of the company directives. In general 90% of the sample agrees there is a direct relationship between raw materials, products and processes certification and the competitiveness of the companies. In consequence this answer gave elements to support the hypothesis of the existence of a relationship among the considered variables."	"Revista Mexicana de Agronegocios, Volume 30: 921-929"	Mexico	"19.370698, -99.171773"	Aloe vera	Aloe vera	International Aloe Science Council	Companies		Producer					No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported												
1324	"Gundogmus, E."	2007	Organic dried fig production: A comparative analysis of organic and conventional smallholdings in turkey	"The aim of this study was to compare productivity, profitability, producer-defined constraints, and goals and research priorities between ten individually paired organic and conventional fig farms in Turkey. Ten farm pairs, each of which consists of one organic and one conventional farm with less than 10 ha of fig plantation, were selected from five Fig Sales Cooperative (Taris-Incirbirlik) regions of Aydin Province with varying agro-ecological conditions. Although six of the organic farms matched or exceeded the production of their conventional counterparts, the three-year mean yield of the organic farms as a group was 5% lower than that of the conventional farms. However, excluding organic certification costs, mean variable costs and net income were similar for both groups, mainly because organic price premiums received by the farmers compensated for lower yields. If current organic certification costs paid by firms are included to farm budgets, the price premiums paid to organic producers would have to increase to 22% in order to equal the net incomes from conventional dried fig. Conventional farmers identified low and unstable prices as the main constraints for sustained production and stated further intensification of production as their main goal. Organic farmers focused on farm diversification and agronomic practices that permit organic farm management."	Biological Agriculture & Horticulture 24  379-396 	Turkey	"37.811700, 28.486400"	Fruit	Fig	Organic	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews (Freeform), sales records"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported									
7444	"Hain, H.; Ahas, R."	2007	Can forest certification improve forest management? Case study of the FSC certified Estonian State Forest Management Centre	"This paper analyses environmental, social and economic impacts of FSC certification in Estonian state forests. The rapid expansion in forest certification is causing the need to evaluate actual costs and benefits of certification at the organizational and macroeconomic levels. The authors have used results of stakeholder interviews, comprehensive questionnaires among the staff of the certified State Forest Management Centre and a field inventory of managed forests. Results reveal that certification has increased the reputation of the certified organization and the international reputation of Estonian forestry in general. FSC certification has helped to improve several social and environmental aspects of forest management. On the other hand certification has not reduced the share of clear-cut free forestry or increased the preference for mixed stands, as hoped by many stakeholders."	International Forestry Review 9  759-770 DOI:10.1505/ifor.9.3.759	Estonia 	"58.5953, 25.0136"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Company	Stakeholders	Producer	Mixed methods	"Questionnaire, Interviews and Filed visits"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported 	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported	
1306	"Hartman, G. L.; Pawlowski, M. L.; Herman, T. K.; Eastburn, D."	2016	Organically grown soybean production in the USA: Constraints and management of pathogens and insect pests	"Soybean is the most produced and consumed oil seed crop worldwide. In 2013, 226 million metric tons were produced in over 70 countries. Organically produced soybean represents less than 0.1% of total world production. In the USA, the certified organic soybean crop was grown on 53 thousand ha or 0.17% of the total soybean acreage in the USA (32 million ha) in 2011. A gradual increase in production of organically grown soybean has occurred since the inception of organic labeling due to increased human consumption of soy products and increased demand for organic soybean meal to produce organic animal products. Production constraints caused by pathogens and insect pests are often similar in organic and non-organic soybean production, but management between the two systems often differs. In general, the non-organic, grain-type soybean crop are genetically modified higher-yielding cultivars, often with disease and pest resistance, and are grown with the use of synthetic pesticides. The higher value of organically produced soybean makes production of the crop an attractive option to some farmers. This article reviews production and uses of organically grown soybean in the USA, potential constraints to production caused by pathogens and insect pests, and management practices used to reduce the impact of these constraints. √•¬© 2016 by the authors; licensee MDPI."	Agronomy 6   DOI:10.3390/agronomy6010016	USA	"38.9072, 77.0369"	Agriculture	Soybeans	Organic	Farms	Farms	Producer	Government data	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported											Data Reported		Data Reported 								Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported
11069	"Hoang, H. T. N.; Hoshino, S.; Hashimoto, S."	2014	Forest stewardship council certificate for a group of planters in Vietnam: SWOT analysis and implications	"A group of smallholders in Vietnam has obtained Forest Stewardship Council certification (FSC) for their Acacia plantation forest. Although the certification aims to improve livelihoods via economic, social, and environmental benefits, there are concerns amongst smallholders regarding the outcomes from their certification decision as well as difficulties in maintaining the certification. This article assesses the benefits and challenges of forest management certification from the perspective of small household groups who have achieved FSC certification. The FSC has brought new opportunities for farmers, such as increased selling price and extended trade networks, but is also associated with significant obstacles such as high initial and annual surveillance audit fees, difficult paper work, and complicated procedures for selling wood. Additionally, the small size of the plantations and low expertise in forest management make it more difficult and costly for farmers to achieve certification. There is a heavy dependency on donors for financial and technical support. Because subsidies from organizations like the World Wide Fund for Nature Vietnam are unlikely to continue indefinitely, the benefit of certification for smallholders is uncertain. Feasible actions to increase the sustainability of the group are suggested, including increasing the responsibility of the group members, enhancing the awareness and capacity of the local people, and searching for additional support from other organizations and wood processing companies. From the macro level, a national forest stewardship council should be established so that the audit cost for certification would be reduced. √•¬© 2014, The Japanese Forest Society and Springer Japan."	Journal of Forest Research 20  35-42 DOI:10.1007/s10310-014-0472-z	Vietnam	"16.794300, 106.963400"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Smallholders; Farms	Farms	Producer	Interviews (freeform)	Economics and cost data extracted	Matched	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported									Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported							
11836	"Hoang, H. T. N.; Hoshino, S.; Hashimoto, S."	2015	"Costs comparison between FSC and non FSC Acacia plantations in Quang Tri province, Vietnam"	"Due to market demand, the FSC certification has been introduced and developed in Vietnam. Despite of many challenges, FSC certificate has been proved to bring economic benefits to the owners. The comparison to non-certified Acacia plantation shows that the management of certified forests does not increase the cost at high level, while the income of selling FSC wood logs is very promising. However, since currently the certification is subsidized and stumpage price is kept at higher than normal to foster the participation of local people the current price premium should be treated with caution. As for sustainable development, local people need to manage the certification by themselves which then, required them to have a good financial plan to cover the necessary fee. Further calculation need to be carried out in order to know how much membership fee can be collected in order to maintain the certification while do not affect to local people' revenue."	International Journal of Environmental Science and Development 6  947-951 DOI:10.7763/IJESD.2015.V6.727	Vietnam	"16.813805, 107.093307"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Smallholder Forest Certification Group	Farmers; Smallholders	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews (SWOT matrix), government/NGO reports, focus groups"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported			Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported					Data Reported			
RG12	"Hughell, D.; Newsom, D."	2013	Impacts of Rainforest Alliance Certification on Coffee Farms in Colombia. 		"Report, Rainforest Alliance.    "	Colombia	"4.6, -74.083333; 7.133333, -73"	Coffee	Coffee	Rainforest Alliance	Farms	Farms; Farm workers	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported				Data Reported							Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported		
5557	"Jari, Bridget; Snowball, Jeanette D.; Fraser, Gavin C. G."	2013	Is Fairtrade in Commercial Farms Justifiable? Its Impact on Commercial and Small-Scale Producers in South Africa	"Fairtrade initially was limited to improving the lives of small-scale and peasant farmers, but later on it embraced commercial farmers, which attracted criticism. While there are a number of justifications for the Fairtrade organization's decision, there are authors who feel that meaningful ""fair trade"" cannot be achieved with the inclusion of commercial farms. This paper investigates the impact of Fairtrade on commercial farms and small-scale farmer cooperatives in South Africa. Fairtrade on South African commercial farms embraces a number of policy concerns related to land reform, BEE and sustainable development. The results of the study show that when commercial farms are included in the Fairtrade model, communities in which these farmers live benefit from developmental projects. In addition, in some instances, farm workers gain shares in the commercial farms, and benefit from the farm owners' knowledge and capital."	Agrekon 52  66-88 	South Africa 	"-33.2278, 21.8569;-32.2968, 26.4194"	Mixed farming	Fruit; Rooibos tea; Wine; Grapes	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Farms; Co-operatives	Farms; Co-operatives	Producer	Interviews (freeform)	N/A	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported			Data Reported										
G08	"Jena, Pradyot Ranjan; Chichaibelu, Bezawit Beyene; Stellmacher, Till; Grote, Ulrike"	2012	"The impact of coffee certification on small-scale producer' livelihoods: a case study from the Jimma Zone, Ethiopia. "		Agricultural Economics 43 (4): 429-440 DOI:10.1111/j.1574-0862.2012.00594.x 	Ethiopia	"8.98, 38.76"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives	Smallholders	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews, questionnaires and focus group discussions"	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported									
2883	"Johansson, J.; Lidestav, G."	2011	Can voluntary standards regulate forestry? - Assessing the environmental impacts of forest certification in Sweden	"This article addresses the issue of to what extent forest certification schemes contribute to the enhancement of environmental protection in Swedish forestry. Our assessment is built on the analysis of three different data sets, namely: 1) the Swedish National Forest Inventory (NFI), 2) the Swedish Database for Forest Owner Analysis, presenting data on small-scale forestry practices and certification, and 3) a follow-up mail survey addressed to private small-scale forest owners with certified forest properties. Our NFI analysis indicated some minor improvements in forest conditions, corresponding with the interim target for enhanced biological diversity (dead wood, broad-leaved trees and old forests). The improvements were less evident on large-scale forest properties (certified in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council scheme) than on small-scale private forest properties (mainly certified in accordance with the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes). This contradicts a common assumption that a much higher degree of certification with stricter environmental standards will give more evident positive impacts on environmental conditions. However, results from the follow-up survey showed that more harvesting activity had taken place on certified small-scale forest properties than on non-certified properties. This could mean more negative effects on biodiversity. We conclude by stressing the importance of improving quantitative methods for determining a cause-and-effect relationship between certification and nature protection; previous research tends to report rather far-reaching conclusions based on limited data sets. √•¬© 2010 Elsevier B.V."	Forest Policy and Economics 13  191-198 DOI:10.1016/j.forpol.2010.11.004	Sweden	"60.128200, 18.643500"	Forest sector	Timber; Nontimber Forest Products (NTFP)	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); PEFC	Companies 	Logging companies; Private forest owners 	Producer	Mixed methods	Government/census data and mail survey	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported																Data Reported			Data Reported					
G01	"Kalonga, Severin Kusonyola; Kulindwa, Kassim Athumani"	2017	"Does forest certification enhance livelihood conditions? Empirical evidence from forest management in Kilwa District, Tanzania"		Forest Policy and Economics 74  49-61 DOI:10.1016/j.forpol.2016.11.001	Tanzania	"-8.252778, 38.6775"	Forest sector	Timber; Nontimber Forest Products (NTFP)	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Villages	Households	Producer	Mixed methods	Participatory rural appraisal - PRA for focus group discussions - FGDs and key informants' interviews and quantitative household surveys	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported						Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported						Data Reported	
11561	"Kersting, S.; Wollni, M."	2012	New institutional arrangements and standard adoption: evidence from small-scale fruit and vegetable farmers in Thailand	"GlobalGAP is the most important private standard for producers in the Thai horticultural sector concerning access to high-value markets, especially to Europe. This paper presents an analysis of GlobalGAP adoption by small-scale fruit and vegetable farmers in Thailand focusing on GlobalGAP group certification, the costs and perceived benefits of GlobalGAP adoption, and the factors influencing standard adoption. In our research area, GlobalGAP group certification has encouraged the formation of new institutional arrangements between farmers, exporters and donors. Farmers participating in a development program were organized in certification groups where the Quality Management System (QMS) was either run by the donor, by the exporter, or by farmers themselves. Results of our adoption model suggest that support by donors, exporters and public-private partnerships are vital to enable small-scale farmers to adopt the standard. Furthermore, farmers are more likely to adopt if they are better educated and more experienced, and if they have access to female family labor, improved farming technology, and information and extension services."	Food Policy 37  452-462 DOI:10.1016/j.foodpol.2012.04.005	Thailand	"15.870000, 100.992500"	Mixed farming	Fruit; Vegetables	GLOBALG.A.P	Co-operatives; Smallholders; Farms	Farmers; Exporters	N/A	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported 	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported							Data Reported	
3450	"Kiefer, Lukas; Menzel, Friederike; Bahrs, Enno"	2014	The effect of feed demand on greenhouse gas emissions and farm profitability for organic and conventional dairy farms	"The reduction of product-related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in milk production appears to be necessary. The reduction of emissions on an individual farm might be highly accepted by farm owners if it were accompanied by an increase in profitability. Using life cycle assessments to determine the product carbon footprints (PCF) and farm-level evaluations to record profitability, we explored opportunities for optimization based on analysis of 81 organic and conventional pasture-based dairy farms in southern Germany. The objective of the present study was to detect common determining factors for low PCF and high management incomes (MI) to achieve GHG reductions at the lowest possible operational cost. In our sample, organic farms, which performed economically better than conventional farms, produced PCF that were significantly higher than those produced by conventional farms [1.61 0.29 vs. 1.45 0.28 kg of CO2 equivalents (CO(2)eq) per kg of milk; means SD)]. A multiple linear regression analysis of the sample demonstrated that low feed demand per kilogram of milk, high grassland yield, and low forage area requirements per cow are the main factors that decrease PCF. These factors are also useful for improving a farm's profitability in principle. For organic farms, a reduction of feed demand of 100 g/kg of milk resulted in a PCF reduction of 105 g of CO(2)eq/ kg of milk and an increase in MI of approximately 2.1 euro cents (c)/kg of milk. For conventional farms, a decrease of feed demand of 100 g/kg of milk corresponded to a reduction in PCF of 117 g of CO(2)eq/kg of milk and an increase in MI of approximately 3.1 c/kg of milk. Accordingly, farmers could achieve higher profits while reducing GHG emissions. Improved education and training of farmers and consultants regarding GHG mitigation and farm profitability appear to be the best methods of improving efficiency under traditional and organic farming practices."	Journal of Dairy Science 97  7564-7574 	Germany 	"52.5200, 13.4050"	Dairy	Dairy	Organic	Farms	Farms	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported			Data Reported					Data Reported				
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Costa Rica	"37.3382, -121.8863"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Guatemala	"14.6349, -90.5069"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Colombia	"4.7110, -74.0721"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Mexico	"19.4326, -99.1332"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Peru	"-12.0464, -77.0428"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Nicaragua	"12.1150, -86.2362"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	Honduras	"14.0723, -87.1921"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
11498	"Kilian, B.; Jones, C.; Pratt, L.; Villalobos, A."	2006	Is sustainable agriculture a viable strategy to improve farm income in Central America? A case study on coffee	"In order to alleviate the impacts of the low coffee prices in recent years, sustainable coffee production and certification have been a logical strategy for many producers to: a) differentiate their product in the market place; and, b) shift their production cost structure away from more input intensive techniques. This paper explores the two most widely recognized certification schemes (organic and ""fairtrade"") to determine whether certification to these systems is actually benefiting producers. It then explores the principal differences in production costs and price premiums for the two systems and their effect on different categories of producers. Finally, it considers the dynamics of the conventional and sustainable coffee markets to assess the likely medium to long-term economic outlook for producers involved in the certification schemes. The research is based on a combination of published sources and detailed primary source data (interviews and surveys) gathered by the CIMS Foundation. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved."	Journal of Business Research 59  322-330 	 El Salvador	"13.6929, -89.2182"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Organic	Co-ops and Farmers 	Farmers; Exporters	Producer; Processor	Other	Economic data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported									
10512	"Kleemann, Linda"	2011	Organic pineapple farming in Ghana: A good choice for smallholders?		Kiel Working Paper No. 1672    	Ghana	"7.946500, -1.023200"	Fruit	Pineapple	Organic	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, production/export/market data"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported										
988	"Kukkonen, Mari; Hohnwald, Stefan"	2009	"Comparing floristic composition in treefall gaps of certified, conventionally managed and natural forests of northern Honduras"	"Forest certification sets requirements for minimizing the impacts of logging on the natural structure and floristic composition of forests. We assessed the impact of certification by comparing the floristic composition of 52 taxa of trees and shrubs in the treefall gaps of certified, conventionally managed and protected forests in northern Honduras. The highest abundance of light-benefiting taxa was found in certified forests, whereas conventionally managed forests were floristically more similar to natural forests. The environmental conditions measured in certified gaps were not favourable for a natural forest floristic composition. Past logging may have altered the species composition in certified forests relatively more than in conventionally managed forests. This implies that the need for restoration operations should be considered in certification requirements, along with landscape-level planning to enhance post-logging recovery. √•¬© 2009 INRA EDP Sciences."	Annals of Forest Science 66  809_809 DOI:10.1051/forest/2009070	Honduras	"15.633333, -86.666667"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Forests	Individual Forest pacthes	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																		Data Reported	Data Reported					
1798	"Latynskiy, E.; Berger, T."	2017	Assessing the Income Effects of Group Certification for Smallholder Coffee Farmers: Agent-based Simulation in Uganda	"Voluntary sustainability standards, aimed at improving the environmental, social and economic aspects of agricultural production and trade, are becoming increasingly common. The coffee sector is a prime example, where sustainability certification could improve livelihoods for poor smallholders. However, as individual production volumes are low, smallholder farmers need to cooperate in certification as a group, which makes impact assessment more complicated. Previous empirical studies, reporting premia of up to 30%, have neglected the costs associated with group certification. We explore the issue using an agent-based simulation of coffee producer organisations in Uganda, including the certification-related costs for farmers. Our results suggest that certification can have a small positive impact on participating households. But the added value of certification is substantially lower than the price premium, because of certification costs. Increasing both the membership of the producer groups and their deliveries of certified coffee are necessary to improve the rewards of certification. √•¬© 2017 The Authors Journal of Agricultural Economics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Agricultural Economics Society."	Journal of Agricultural Economics 68  727-748 DOI:10.1111/1477-9552.12212	Uganda	"0.3267, 31.7537"	Coffee	Coffee	UTZ 	Smallhodlers	Farmers	Producer 	Mixed methods	"Focus group interviews, baseline research project"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported		Data Reported							Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported							
1617	"Le Mare, A."	2012	Creating and maintaining fair trade: Meanings and practices of four southern fair trade enterprises	"Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to explore the meanings and business practices of four Southern Fair Trade enterprises (SFTEs). Design/methodology/approach - The paper is based on research with four SFTEs in Bangladesh, taking an ethnographic approach with qualitative methodologies such as semi-structured interviews, recorded meetings, informal discussions, analysis of grey literature, and observation with managers, staff, field workers and artisans of the organisations. Findings - The meanings of Fair Trade are located in personal, family, business and national understandings of fairness and development. Such meanings inform the business practices of the SFTEs, used to achieve both commercial success and social goals, confirming the role of SFTEs in creating and maintaining ideals of fairer trade. Research limitations/implications - There is a need for more research on Fair Trade from the perspective of SFTEs. Practical implications - The research draws attention to the key roles and business practices of the SFTE, increasing the understanding of what happens in the name of Fair Trade, and also provides lessons for other socially responsible enterprises. Social implications - The research highlights the importance of Southern meanings and practices, which should be included in the conceptualisation of Fair Trade, thus facilitating both informed debate and understanding the possibilities for the promotion and extension of fairer trade. Originality/value - This research is unusual in concentrating on the central role played by the SFTE, particularly in the handicraft sector and with businesses rather than cooperatives. The business practices and decisions of SFTEs are often hidden in representations of Fair Trade."	Critical Perspectives on International Business 8  309-328 	Bangladesh	"23.8103, 90.4125"	Handicrafts	Handicrafts	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Companies	N/A	Processor	Mixed methods	"Semi structured interviews, recorded meetings, informal discussions, analysis of literature, observations"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported							Data Reported							
3447	"Loconto, A. M.; Simbua, E. F."	2010	Organizing smallholder production for sustainability: lessons learned from fairtrade certification in the Tanzanian tea industry	The objective of this paper is to examine the different ways that smallholders are brought into Fairtrade certification schemes in the Tanzanian tea industry. We examine the different ownership relations of processing factories and the perceived benefits of these different arrangements. We are looking to explore the challenges and opportunities provided by each of these different ownership relations and the possibilities for sustainability. Specifically we ask: (1) Which type of ownership arrangement is more likely to engage in Fairtrade certification? (2) Do perceived benefits from Fairtrade certification increase with the percentage of ownership shares? and (3) What aspects of these organizational relations have resulted in more sustainable relationships between growers and processors? We use descriptive qualitative analysis to identify the significance between factory ownership organization and scheme success. This also allows us to discuss participants' perceptions of the benefits of each scheme. We find that there is a movement towards innovation in the organizational strategies for linking growers to tea processing factories in Tanzania. This innovation includes new ownership arrangements of processing factories and outgrower contracts that have been associated with certified Fairtrade production. We also suggest that organizational innovation is significant for obtaining scheme success yet perceived benefits of and increased information about Fairtrade production is independent from ownership shares in processing.	"Proceedings of a symposium on Innovation and Sustainable Development in Agriculture and Food, Montpellier, France, 28 June to 1st July 2010   16 pp. "	Tanzania	"6.3690, 34.8888"	Tea	Tea	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Companies; Smallholders; Co-operatives	Companies; Smallholders; Co-operatives	Producer; Processor	Interviews (freeform)	N/A	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported						Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported 													
5160	"Lourenzani, W. L.; Lourenzani, A. E. B. S.; Pigatto, G.; Simon, E. J"	2006	The role of certification in the Fruit Crops Development Program of Nova Alta Paulista Region		"Informa√ß√µes Econ√¥micas, SP, v.36, n.2, fev. 2006"	Brazil	"-21.6938754,-53.316528"	Fruit	Fruit	EUREPGAP	Individual		Producer			Case study with interviews	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported													Data Reported							Data Reported	
11940	"Malini, H.; Aryani, D."	2012	Efficiency analysis of palm plantation plasma farmers certified RSPO and without RSPO on sustainable palm plantation management in Musi Banyuasin Regency South Sumatera Indonesia	"This study aims to compare the income of smallholder oil palm plantations with RSPO certified and non RSPO certified in Banyuasin Regency, analyze the efficiency level of plantations with RSPO certified and without RSPO certified. The study conducted in Musi Banyuasin Regency of South Sumatra Province. The results showed that the revenue of smallholders in the plantation with RSPO certified more than smallholders non RSPO certified, the components that influence the difference income are the output of production, production costs and selling prices received by farmers. The efficiency level in terms of factors plantation land,capital and labor showed that the plantation with RSPO certified, the efficiency level is affected by issued of expanding land and capital, while for the non RSPO certified, the level efficiency tends to be influenced only by the expansion land."	"International Proceedings of Chemical, Biological and Environmental Engineering (IPCBEE) 33  194-199 "	Indonesia 	"-2.544200, 103.728900"	Palm Oil	Palm oil	Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)	Smallholders; Co-operatives; Farms	Smallholders; Co-operatives; Farms	Producer	Other	"""Primary data and seconary data"""	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported												Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported							
12593	"Manrique Chica, O.; Rosique Gracia, J."	2014	Food security and food safety in households of day laborers in certified and non-certified coffee farms at the southwest of Antioquia-Colombia	"Background: Few studies have been produced about quality and safety of foods in coffee areas from Antioquia, before and after the change in coffee production models by introducing certified coffees. However, these products are valuable for their positive impact on the economy, quality of life and food security on the sectors involved in production. Objectives: To determine the effect of certification on food security and safety in day laborers households at the Southwest of Antioquia. Methods: We selected 79 households of resident day laborers (41 from certified farms and 38 from non-certified) for comparative analysis. Samples of drinks (juice) in everyday use were collected for analysis by counting the most probable number (MPN) of total (TC) and fecal coliforms (FC), using the technique of Fluorocult LMX (Merck√•¬¨, USA). It was applied the Latin American and Caribbean Food Security Scale (ELCSA) and a survey to assess the availability and access to food, economy, education, housing quality and nutritional status by the Body Mass Index (BMI). After identifying the variables that best represented the components of household food security, we performed an analysis of MDS (Multidimensional Scaling) to find associations between food security components and ELCSA levels. Results: No significant differences were found in food security in the ELCSA, by type of farm. The certified farms had a tendency to be associated to low TC contamination, low incomes and higher food and housing costs. The MDS showed that acceptable quality in total coliform was more associated to certification than to other variables, and FC contamination to mild insecurity. Conclusions: The certification in coffee farms is not significantly associated with household food security of day laborers working in such sites. Meanwhile, CF contamination can be considered as an indicator of mild food insecurity."	Vitae-Revista De La Facultad De Quimica Farmaceutica 21 1 20_29 	Colombia	"5.701147, -76.1050394"	Coffee	Coffee		Farms	Farmers 	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported				Data Reported																				
1321	"Maraseni, T. N.; Son, H. L.; Cockfield, G.; Duy, H. V.; Nghia, T. D."	2017	The financial benefits of forest certification: Case studies of acacia growers and a furniture company in Central Vietnam	"The demand for forest products is growing and plantation forests are supplying an increasing proportion of wood to industry. There are also increasing market requirements to demonstrate the sustainability of timber supply. Vietnam has some 3.9 M ha of plantation forests, 44% of which is on short-rotations managed by smallholders. More than 80 percent of the harvested volume from the plantation forests is used for woodchip production to serve domestic and international markets. The Vietnam Government has goals to increase the domestic supply of suitable wood for furniture production to international markets by increasing the supply of larger logs grown in plantations and the supply of certified wood to industry. However, it is not clear that these objectives will necessarily benefit growers and processors. This study compared financial returns from certified and non-certified forest products for: (1) growers with 10-year rotation acacia plantations; and (2) a furniture processing business (battens for chair and table) in Quang Tri Province, Central Vietnam. The data were collected from smallholder tree growers and a sawmilling company, triangulated with and supplemented by formal and informal interviews with other stakeholders. Currently, much of the cost of certification is met by external aid donors. Results showed that net returns from both certified and non-certified timber products are positive for both actors and are higher from certified timber production than non-certified timber production. When the full costs of certification are included, the benefits to growers of certification are much reduced and potentially negative unless the fixed costs can be spread over a large group of growers. A minimum of group with 3000 ha may be required to make certification cost effective. In recent years, the price difference between the certified and non-certified logs is narrowing and this may discourage farmers from attaining certification. For the sawmiller, the benefit of certified timber production is greater. It would be in their interests to increase prices paid to growers for certified logs. Government policy measures to support certification should include consideration of who bears the cost, support for aggregation of smallholder growers and improved communication in timber supply chains. √•¬© 2017 Elsevier Ltd"	Land Use Policy 69  56-63 DOI:10.1016/j.landusepol.2017.09.011	Vietnam	"21.02, 105.85"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Co-operatives	Smallholders; Sawmills	Producer; Processor	Mixed methods	"Formal/informal interviews with farmers, stakeholders, co-op data"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported											
8759	"Marie-Vivien, D.; Garcia, C. A.; Kushalappa, C. G.; Vaast, P."	2014	"Trademarks, geographical indications and environmental labelling to promote biodiversity: The case of agroforestry coffee in India"	"The district of Kodagu, also called Coorg, in the Western Ghats of India produces 2% of the world's coffee, the expansion and intensification of which have reduced the forest cover by more than 30% in 20 years. Innovative actions are therefore urgently required to link economic development and biodiversity conservation, and stakeholders are exploring three strategies to add value to coffee from Coorg and prevent further biodiversity erosion: registration of trademarks; geographical indications; and environmental certification, via eco-labels. This article analyses their respective strengths and weaknesses and discusses the synergies between them √•¬© The Authors 2014."	Development Policy Review 32  379-398 DOI:10.1111/dpr.12060	India	"12.3375, 75.8069"	Coffee	Coffee	UTZ;Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance;Organic	Companies; Plantations; Farmers	Companies; Plantations;Farmers	Producer; Processor	Interviews (freeform)	N/A	Pre-post	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported									Data Reported		Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported							
9060	"Marinari, S.; Mancinelli, R.; Campiglia, E.; Grego, S."	2006	Chemical and biological indicators of soil quality in organic and conventional farming systems in Central Italy	"In the past decade, there has been increased scientific interest in the so-called organic farming, especially in comparison with conventional agriculture. Many recent studies compare these two fundamentally different systems for soil properties, in different regions of the world. In this study, two adjacent fields in Central Italy, one managed according to organic, and the other according to conventional farming methods, were studied to determine the effects of these two agricultural systems on soil quality indicators at the farm level. Chemical and microbiological properties were chosen as indicators of soil quality and were measured at soil depth intervals of 5-20 and 20-35 cm, after 7 years of organic certified and conventional management methods. The field under organic management showed significantly better soil nutritional and microbiological conditions; with increased level of total nitrogen, nitrate and available phosphorus, and an increased microbial biomass content, and enzymatic activities (acid phosphatase, protease and dehydrogenase). No consistent increase in total organic carbon was observed. Results of the study suggest that, over the period of 7 year, organic management method strongly affects soil quality indicators. Large differences between the two soils were found in terms of microbiological properties, which are sensitive soil indicators of changes occurred under the different farming systems. √•¬© 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	Ecological Indicators 6  701-711 DOI:10.1016/j.ecolind.2005.08.029	Italy	"42.29, 12.16"	Agriculture	Wheat; Sunflower	Organic	Farms	Farms	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																					Data Reported			
8372	"Markopoulos, M."	1998	"The impacts of certification on community forest enterprises: a case study of the Lomerio Community Forest Management Project, Bolivia"	"An analysis is made of the economic, social and environmental impacts of forest certification of the Lomerio Community Forest Management Project in eastern Bolivia. Owned and managed by the Chiquitano Indians, the Lomerio project secured forest management certification from the Rainforest Alliance's Smart Wood programme in February 1996. In doing so it became the first forest enterprise to be certified in Bolivia. The process of certification is described. The analysis of the impacts of certification at Lomerio is divided into 5 parts covering: forest management practices; enterprise administration, finances and marketing; institutions and social relations; distribution of costs and benefits; and national forest policy and legislation. Under each of these, an attempt is made to assess both the direct and indirect impacts of certification. In the case of national policy and legislation, the analysis concentrates on the project's legal standing following certification, as well as more general developments in Bolivian forest policy and legislation related to forest certification. The study used a combination of approaches, including field investigation, in-depth interviews, and literature review."	IIED Forestry and Land Use Series   xii-pp 	Bolivia 	"-16.499, -68.1462"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); Rainforest Alliance	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	N/A	N/A	Pre-post	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported							Data Reported					Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported				
10619	"Mendoza, R.; Bastiaensen, J."	2003	Fair trade and the coffee crisis in the Nicaraguan Segovias	"Small coffee producers in Nicaragua have faced a crisis as the coffee export price has halved since the 1990s. This article examines the role of fair trade in stabilizing prices for small coffee producers, and compares the prices all along the supply chain of the instant coffees (Nestle and Cafedirect). Although Cafedirect's price guarantee has prevented producers from going bankrupt, it is clear that the processing and retail side has become more expensive since the 1990s, partly as a result of the small volumes traded. Cafedirect's high prices compared with commercial brands are likely to ensure that it remains small, and therefore only benefits a minority of producers. The authors examine the options for Nicaragua's small coffee producers and recommend that the producers upgrade their production and postharvest technologies to produce high-quality specialty coffees which can command high prices even without a fair trade tag. They also recommend that the cooperatives be strengthened to be less inefficient and more accountable to their membership."	Small Enterprise Development 14  36-46 	Nicaragua	"13.789400, -86.012200"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Regional	Producer	Mixed methods	"Company data and informants from NGOs, companies, supermarket and 2 processing plants."	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported										
11096	"Mendoza, Teodoro C."	2004	Evaluating the Benefits of Organic Farming in Rice Agroecosystems in the Philippines		Journal of Sustainable Agriculture 24 2 93-115 DOI:10.1300/J064v24n02_09	The Philippines	"13.116200, 121.079400"	Rice	Rice	Organic	Co-operatives	Co-operatives	Producer	Mixed methods	"Focus group discussion, individual farmer interviews"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported												Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported		Data Reported	
1009	"Milford, Anna"	2004	"Coffee, co-operatives and competition: the impact of fair trade"		CMI Reports    	Mexico	"16.756900, -93.129200"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; independant Farms	Cooperative; Farms	Producer	Interviews (freeform)	Based on set questionnaire	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported			Data Reported			Data Reported							
6614	"Miteva, D. A., Loucks, C. J., Pattanayak, S. K."	2015	Social and Environmental Impacts of Forest Management Certification in Indonesia	"In response to unsustainable timber production in tropical forest concessions, voluntary forest management certification programs such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) have been introduced to improve environmental, social, and economic performance over existing management practices. However, despite the proliferation of forest certification over the past two decades, few studies have evaluated its effectiveness. Using temporally and spatially explicit village-level data on environmental and socio-economic indicators in Kalimantan (Indonesia), we evaluate the performance of the FSC-certified timber concessions compared to non-certified logging concessions. Employing triple difference matching estimators, we find that between 2000 and 2008 FSC reduced aggregate deforestation by 5 percentage points and the incidence of air pollution by 31%. It had no statistically significant impacts on fire incidence or core areas, but increased forest perforation by 4 km2 on average. In addition, we find that FSC reduced firewood dependence (by 33%), respiratory infections (by 32%) and malnutrition (by 1 person) on average. By conducting a rigorous statistical evaluation of FSC certification in a biodiversity hotspot such as Indonesia, we provide a reference point and offer methodological and data lessons that could aid the design of ongoing and future evaluations of a potentially critical conservation policy"	"PLoSONE, 10: e0129675-e0129675. hDOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129675"	Indonesia	"-6.5951923,106.7568726"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Forest concessions	Individual Forest concessions	Producer		Mixed methods	"Goverment Data, Spatial imaging "	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported														Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported							
9630	"Mohan, S."	2016	Institutional Change in Value Chains: Evidence from Tea in Nepal	"Local conditions in developing countries have long played a part in determining whether their small-scale firms can benefit from deepening their participation in global value chains (GVCs). Institutional theory allows us to characterize these local conditions not simply as particularistic oddities but rather as elements of an institutional matrix that affects the livelihoods of chain participants. However, the institutional dimension of GVC analysis has been traditionally neglected in the literature, to the detriment of our understanding of the impacts of upgrading in GVCs. This study aims to remedy this failure by illustrating how institutional context mediates between value chain upgrading and the livelihoods of chain participants. It particular, it seeks to elucidate how value chain upgrading spurs a process of change in the institutions that govern the livelihoods of suppliers in developing countries. This examination sheds light on the more general question of how value chain upgrading sometimes helps, but sometimes hurts, the welfare of chain participants. This theoretical contribution to the value chain literature is based upon an institutional analysis of primary qualitative data from more than 80 small-scale tea farmers in Nepal, some of whom had upgraded from conventional to organically certified production. Our study finds that value chain upgrading launches a process of institutional change that can be summarized in a general typology. The typology highlights how rules, strategies, organizations, and informal norms affect whether a given upgrading intervention yields livelihood benefits in a particular place. Upgrading can yield positive impacts in chain-linked livelihood dimensions, such as price, and yet induce negative changes in other livelihood dimensions, such as risk, and thereby yield overall adverse livelihood implications, in a process we dub √å√ïimmiserizing upgrading√å√í. These findings contribute to advancing the conceptual literature on global value chains (GVCs) by suggesting a general typology for cycles of institutional change that influence livelihood outcomes. The typology provides a framework to analyze such processes that is also of use to development practitioners seeking to understand the conditions under which upgrading worsens or improves the welfare of value chain participants. The research findings provide an interesting window into how certification schemes interact with the daily lives of the rural poor. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier Ltd"	World Development 78  52-65 DOI:10.1016/j.worlddev.2015.10.004	Nepal	"27.7172, 85.3240"	Tea	Tea	Organic	Co-operatives	Farmers; Labourers	Producer	Interviews (freeform)	Semi-structured	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported			
9630	"Mohan, S."	2016	Institutional Change in Value Chains: Evidence from Tea in Nepal	"Local conditions in developing countries have long played a part in determining whether their small-scale firms can benefit from deepening their participation in global value chains (GVCs). Institutional theory allows us to characterize these local conditions not simply as particularistic oddities but rather as elements of an institutional matrix that affects the livelihoods of chain participants. However, the institutional dimension of GVC analysis has been traditionally neglected in the literature, to the detriment of our understanding of the impacts of upgrading in GVCs. This study aims to remedy this failure by illustrating how institutional context mediates between value chain upgrading and the livelihoods of chain participants. It particular, it seeks to elucidate how value chain upgrading spurs a process of change in the institutions that govern the livelihoods of suppliers in developing countries. This examination sheds light on the more general question of how value chain upgrading sometimes helps, but sometimes hurts, the welfare of chain participants. This theoretical contribution to the value chain literature is based upon an institutional analysis of primary qualitative data from more than 80 small-scale tea farmers in Nepal, some of whom had upgraded from conventional to organically certified production. Our study finds that value chain upgrading launches a process of institutional change that can be summarized in a general typology. The typology highlights how rules, strategies, organizations, and informal norms affect whether a given upgrading intervention yields livelihood benefits in a particular place. Upgrading can yield positive impacts in chain-linked livelihood dimensions, such as price, and yet induce negative changes in other livelihood dimensions, such as risk, and thereby yield overall adverse livelihood implications, in a process we dub √å√ïimmiserizing upgrading√å√í. These findings contribute to advancing the conceptual literature on global value chains (GVCs) by suggesting a general typology for cycles of institutional change that influence livelihood outcomes. The typology provides a framework to analyze such processes that is also of use to development practitioners seeking to understand the conditions under which upgrading worsens or improves the welfare of value chain participants. The research findings provide an interesting window into how certification schemes interact with the daily lives of the rural poor. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier Ltd"	World Development 78  52-65 DOI:10.1016/j.worlddev.2015.10.004	Nepal	"27.7172, 85.3240"	Tea	Tea	Chain of Custody standard	Farmers	Farmers; Labourers	Producer	N/A	N/A	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported			Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported								
3926	"Montano, J.; Nawata, E.; Panichsakpatana, S."	2016	"Do GAP farmers do better than non-GAP farmers? Pesticide management practices of horticultural farmers in Damnoen Saduak, Thailand"	"In order to provide better and safer agricultural food products, the Thai government has introduced a public standard of good agricultural practices (GAP) which has been implemented since 2004. Using data obtained from interviews with farmers applying intensive horticultural systems in Damnoen Saduak District (Ratchaburi Province) we determined whether those who followed the GAP program could gain access to foreign markets to sell their produce and whether their practices were better in terms of improving food security and worker safety through adequate synthetic pesticide use compared to non-GAP farmers. The results showed that the GAP program has been beneficial for the farmers, by focusing its efforts on certification which is a necessary requirement for export access. However, pesticide management practices did not differ between GAP and non-GAP farmers. We argue that inadequate implementation of the standard in the region is due to a lack of sufficient governmental resources necessary to train farmers and to control on-farm activities that may lead to a decrease in synthetic pesticide use."	Tropical Agriculture and Development 60  43109 	Thailand	"13.517100, 99.953700"	Horticulture	Vegetables; Tree crops; Fruit		Smallholders	Farms	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interview, Surveys"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported														Data Reported									Data Reported	
12538	"Moore S.E., Cubbage F.; Eicheldinger C"	2012	Impacts of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) forest certification in North America. 	"We conducted e-mail surveys of organizations that had received forest management certification under the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in the United States and Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and Canada to determine if forest certification has changed forest management practices and if the changes are practically and statistically different between systems. The results indicate that forest certification prompted substantial changes in practices. On average, firms implemented 13-14 changes in forestry, environmental, social, and economic/system practices to obtain or maintain forest certification. Although there was no statistical difference between systems in the total number of changes, there were many differences in the implementation of specific forest practices, with FSC firms required to make more environmental/forest management changes and SFI firms required to make more economic/system changes. Forest managers believed that the benefits of forest certification were greater than the disadvantages. SFI managers rated the benefits of forest certification higher than FSC managers, but also rated the disadvantages higher. Most organizations felt certification accomplished their objectives and were likely to recertify, thus indicating their endorsement of the process. ¬© 2012 by the Society of American Foresters."	"Journal of Forestry, 110, 79-88. DOI: 10.5849/jof.10-050"	USA	"44.9900081,-93.2771688"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI)	Companies	Companies	Producer; Processors	Household surveys		Pre Post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported							Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported		Data Reported						
12538	"Moore S.E., Cubbage F.; Eicheldinger C"	2012	Impacts of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) forest certification in North America. 	"We conducted e-mail surveys of organizations that had received forest management certification under the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) in the United States and Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) in the United States and Canada to determine if forest certification has changed forest management practices and if the changes are practically and statistically different between systems. The results indicate that forest certification prompted substantial changes in practices. On average, firms implemented 13-14 changes in forestry, environmental, social, and economic/system practices to obtain or maintain forest certification. Although there was no statistical difference between systems in the total number of changes, there were many differences in the implementation of specific forest practices, with FSC firms required to make more environmental/forest management changes and SFI firms required to make more economic/system changes. Forest managers believed that the benefits of forest certification were greater than the disadvantages. SFI managers rated the benefits of forest certification higher than FSC managers, but also rated the disadvantages higher. Most organizations felt certification accomplished their objectives and were likely to recertify, thus indicating their endorsement of the process. ¬© 2012 by the Society of American Foresters."	"Journal of Forestry, 110, 79-88. DOI: 10.5849/jof.10-050"	Canada	"45.3986344,-75.7385583"	Forest sector	Forest resources	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI)	Companies	Companies	Producer; Processors	Household surveys		Pre Post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported							Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported		Data Reported						
7053	"Napitupulu, Togar Alam; Natawidjaja, Ronnie S.; Lantican, Josefina M."	2009	Adding value to fresh and processed produce through product certification	"The current trend in world trade of agro-food, and the change in consumer demand patterns for food and agricultural products, has led to a fast growth of multi-national chains of retail stores in major cities in developing countries and growth in domestic retail store chains. Their presence opens a new market for high quality agro-food. While many products come from overseas, many can also be supplied locally by farmers or farmers' co-operatives or associations provided that they meet the quality and supply standards required by the store. To study and identify specific benefits from this global economic trend that can be tapped by secondary crops farmers, specifically those living in medium altitude areas, two studies were conducted in two member countries of CAPSA-ESCAP, i.e., Indonesia and the Philippines, with assistance provided by the government of France. Product certification requirements by the retailers, and best practices on product certification by the various producers and processors from farms to retailers, were studied, analysed, and collated."	CAPSA Working Paper No. 105    	Indonesia	"-7.090900, 107.668900 "	Agriculture	Mixed crops	National Standardization Institution (SNI; Organic	Smallholders; Co-operatives; Farms	Country-wide	Producer	Mixed methods	"Questionnaire, Household survey, Goverment Data"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported										
7053	"Napitupulu, Togar Alam; Natawidjaja, Ronnie S.; Lantican, Josefina M."	2009	Adding value to fresh and processed produce through product certification	"The current trend in world trade of agro-food, and the change in consumer demand patterns for food and agricultural products, has led to a fast growth of multi-national chains of retail stores in major cities in developing countries and growth in domestic retail store chains. Their presence opens a new market for high quality agro-food. While many products come from overseas, many can also be supplied locally by farmers or farmers' co-operatives or associations provided that they meet the quality and supply standards required by the store. To study and identify specific benefits from this global economic trend that can be tapped by secondary crops farmers, specifically those living in medium altitude areas, two studies were conducted in two member countries of CAPSA-ESCAP, i.e., Indonesia and the Philippines, with assistance provided by the government of France. Product certification requirements by the retailers, and best practices on product certification by the various producers and processors from farms to retailers, were studied, analysed, and collated."	CAPSA Working Paper No. 105    	Philippines	"8.496100, 123.303400"	Agriculture	Mixed crops	National Standardization Institution (SNI; Organic	Smallholders; Co-operatives; Farms	Country-wide	Producer	Mixed methods	"Questionnaire, Household survey, Goverment Data"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported										
6168	"Nasi, R.; Billand, A.; van Vliet, N."	2012	Managing for timber and biodiversity in the Congo Basin	"Multiple-use forest management is considered by many as a preferable alternative to single-use, generally timber-dominant, management models. In the Congo Basin rainforests, integration of timber and non-timber forest resources plays a key role in the subsistence and market economies of rural communities. This is however mainly occurring in "" ordinary"" forest lands and not in formally gazetted forest lands. In this paper we briefly explore the major land-uses in the Congo Basin and their actual or potential for multiple-use. We then focus on the most extant production system (industrial logging concessions) and analyze the existing issues and options for managing actively both timber and biodiversity with a special emphasis on wildlife and the role of certification. A few promising but yet 'unfinished' examples do exist in the region and we review these cases to draw lessons and recommendations. We contend however that true multiple-use could only be realized by expanding beyond boundaries of formal management units through new innovative land-use units, allowing a spatial cohabitation of the interests of local people, of conservation proponents and of extractive industries in the same management unit. √•¬© 2012 ."	Forest Ecology and Management 268  103-111 DOI:10.1016/j.foreco.2011.04.005	Cameroon	"3.8480, 11.5021"	Forest sector	Timber; Biodiversity	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Industrial logging concessions	Companies	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported									Data Reported							Data Reported			Data Reported					
6168	"Nasi, R.; Billand, A.; van Vliet, N."	2012	Managing for timber and biodiversity in the Congo Basin	"Multiple-use forest management is considered by many as a preferable alternative to single-use, generally timber-dominant, management models. In the Congo Basin rainforests, integration of timber and non-timber forest resources plays a key role in the subsistence and market economies of rural communities. This is however mainly occurring in "" ordinary"" forest lands and not in formally gazetted forest lands. In this paper we briefly explore the major land-uses in the Congo Basin and their actual or potential for multiple-use. We then focus on the most extant production system (industrial logging concessions) and analyze the existing issues and options for managing actively both timber and biodiversity with a special emphasis on wildlife and the role of certification. A few promising but yet 'unfinished' examples do exist in the region and we review these cases to draw lessons and recommendations. We contend however that true multiple-use could only be realized by expanding beyond boundaries of formal management units through new innovative land-use units, allowing a spatial cohabitation of the interests of local people, of conservation proponents and of extractive industries in the same management unit. √•¬© 2012 ."	Forest Ecology and Management 268  103-111 DOI:10.1016/j.foreco.2011.04.005	Gabon	" 0.4162, 9.4673"	Forest sector	Timber; Biodiversity	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC); Keurhout; ISO 14001	Industrial logging concessions	Companies	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported									Data Reported							Data Reported			Data Reported					
6168	"Nasi, R.; Billand, A.; van Vliet, N."	2012	Managing for timber and biodiversity in the Congo Basin	"Multiple-use forest management is considered by many as a preferable alternative to single-use, generally timber-dominant, management models. In the Congo Basin rainforests, integration of timber and non-timber forest resources plays a key role in the subsistence and market economies of rural communities. This is however mainly occurring in "" ordinary"" forest lands and not in formally gazetted forest lands. In this paper we briefly explore the major land-uses in the Congo Basin and their actual or potential for multiple-use. We then focus on the most extant production system (industrial logging concessions) and analyze the existing issues and options for managing actively both timber and biodiversity with a special emphasis on wildlife and the role of certification. A few promising but yet 'unfinished' examples do exist in the region and we review these cases to draw lessons and recommendations. We contend however that true multiple-use could only be realized by expanding beyond boundaries of formal management units through new innovative land-use units, allowing a spatial cohabitation of the interests of local people, of conservation proponents and of extractive industries in the same management unit. √•¬© 2012 ."	Forest Ecology and Management 268  103-111 DOI:10.1016/j.foreco.2011.04.005	Congo-Brazzaville	" -4.2470207,15.1571827"	Forest sector	Timber; Biodiversity	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Industrial logging concessions	Companies	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported									Data Reported							Data Reported			Data Reported					
11013	"Nguyen, Thi Minh Chi; Chien, LiHsien; Chen, ShwuEn"	2015	Impact of certification system on smallhold coffee farms' income distribution in Vietnam	"This study attempts to investigate the impact of the working certification programs on the income of the coffee farms operated by the local smallholders at Dakha District, Kontum, Vietnam. Followed by the comparisons of the socio-demographic and economic characteristics between certified and non-certified farmers, the study adopts the Binary Probit model and linear regression model were applied to analyze the decision on farmers' attitude for participation on the available certification programs and their impacts. Propensity score matching (PSM) was applied to examine the average treatment effect of certification program on net coffee income per hectare to reduce the selection bias. Statistical results show that net coffee income per hectare is positively influenced by certification participation. Furthermore, education status the household head, number of members involved in coffee cultivation, distance from household to town center, and training availability effect significantly on net coffee income. Moreover, four matching algorithms of PSM highlighted that members of the certified cooperative achieve higher net coffee income per hectare compared to non-certified ones. Finally, how to introduce an organizational framework to assist local smallhold farmers and local coffee cooperatives become more effective and influential in domestic coffee value chain are suggested."	Asian Journal of Agriculture and Rural Development 5  137-149 	Vietnam	"14.6412, 108.0006"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic; Common Code; 4C; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Rainforest Alliance; UTZ 	Co-operatives	Smallholders	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported						Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported											
10765	"Omoto, R. "	2016	"Multifunctionality and agrarian transition in alternative agro-food production in the global South: The case of organic shrimp certification in the Mekong Delta, Vietnam"	"Processes of globalisation in the conventional food provision system have had widespread negative impacts on small-scale farmers. Yet, alternative food networks, which are characterised by more sustainable production/consumption practices and fairer trade relations, have increasingly been 'going global' and, in the process, have been integrating small-scale farms in the South. One such high-value export-led commodity is certified organic shrimp. International third-party certification schemes are becoming popular as a tool to verify the intangible attributes of such commodities. Using concepts of multifunctionality and agrarian change, this paper examines the implications of introducing an international environmental certification programme to a site where the 'peasantry' has been preserved and has limited integration in the global agro-food system. Drawing on a case study that examines the first certified organic shrimp production project in Vietnam, this paper concludes that the current movement towards post-productivism in the global North has potential to keep local farming practices in the global South by justifying the value of peasant-like production methods through international certification. As a result, the development path of agrarian transition might be reshaped into a form not necessarily pursuing industrialisation. This leads to the new interpretation of pre- and post-productivism beyond the North and South divide. © 2016 Victoria University of Wellington and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd."	"Asia Pacific Viewpoint, 57 (1): 121-137, DOI: 10.1111/apv.12113"	Vietnam	"14.0583, 108.2772"	Fishing	Shrimp	Naturland Organic Standard	Farms	Farmers	Producers	Mixed methods	Household surveys and interviews	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported						Data Reported				Data Reported				Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported					
5333	"Oosterveer, P.; Adjei, B. E.; Vellema, S.; Slingerland, M."	2014	Global sustainability standards and food security: Exploring unintended effects of voluntary certification in palm oil	"Voluntary labelling and certification schemes have become increasingly used in global agro-food chains. They primarily aim at enhancing the sustainability of agricultural production processes. The global palm oil supply, the different environmental and social problems related to it, and the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certification clearly illustrate this. However, global sustainability standards may also have unintended impacts on food security and local development, which are not explicitly taken into account. This article explores the unnoticed effects of voluntary palm oil certification in Indonesia and Ghana and identifies their implications on local and national food provision. As voluntary labels and certification schemes are an emerging category of global governance instruments, their role in food security, as a global public good, should be taken seriously and connected to political and scientific debates on their future involvement in realizing food security. √•¬© 2014 Elsevier B.V."	Global Food Security 3  220-226 DOI:10.1016/j.gfs.2014.09.006	Ghana	"7.946500, -1.023200 "	Palm Oil	Palm oil	Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO); Marine Stewardship Council (MSC); GLOBALG.A.P	Smallholders	Small holders;Farmers	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported													Data Reported	Data Reported					
5333	"Oosterveer, P.; Adjei, B. E.; Vellema, S.; Slingerland, M."	2014	Global sustainability standards and food security: Exploring unintended effects of voluntary certification in palm oil	"Voluntary labelling and certification schemes have become increasingly used in global agro-food chains. They primarily aim at enhancing the sustainability of agricultural production processes. The global palm oil supply, the different environmental and social problems related to it, and the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certification clearly illustrate this. However, global sustainability standards may also have unintended impacts on food security and local development, which are not explicitly taken into account. This article explores the unnoticed effects of voluntary palm oil certification in Indonesia and Ghana and identifies their implications on local and national food provision. As voluntary labels and certification schemes are an emerging category of global governance instruments, their role in food security, as a global public good, should be taken seriously and connected to political and scientific debates on their future involvement in realizing food security. √•¬© 2014 Elsevier B.V."	Global Food Security 3  220-226 DOI:10.1016/j.gfs.2014.09.006	Indonesia	"-0.789300, 113.921300 "	Palm Oil	Palm oil	Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO); Marine Stewardship Council (MSC); GLOBALG.A.P	Smallholders	Small holders;Farmers	Producer	N/A	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported													Data Reported	Data Reported					
12776	"Opitz, S., Julia Hoffmann, Martin Quaas, Nele Matz-L√ºck, Crispina Binohlan, Rainer Froese."	2016	Assessment of MSC-certified fish stocks in the Northeast Atlantic	"This study examines the status and exploitation level of 31 northern European stocks targeted by fisheries certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) as being sustainable and well managed. In the first year of certification, 11 stocks (52% of stocks with available data) were exploited above the maximum sustainable level and four stocks (16% of stocks with available data) were outside of safe biological limits. MSC states that it certifies sub-standard stocks because they will improve once they are in their program. However, after a duration of certification of one to ten years (average four years), no significant changes in fishing pressure or stock size were detected. In the last certified year with available data, seven stocks (44% of stocks with available data) were subject to overfishing and five stocks (21% of stocks with available data) were outside of safe biological limits. Certification should guarantee that fishing quotas are set correctly and are enforced. However, in 11 stocks quotas were set 20ỲÄì60% above the level that fishers were taking, whereas in three stocks landings exceeded quotas by 30ỲÄì50%. The study concludes that MSC should change its rules such that overfishing or unsafe stock sizes lead to immediate suspension of certification and that no certification is issued in the first place for a stock that is already in such a situation"	"Marine Policy 71 (September 1, 2016): 10ỲÄì14. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.marpol.2016.05.003"	Europe	"66.148533, 8.985161"	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Fisheries	Fish stocks	Producer	Government data	MSC and ICES websites	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported															Data Reported									
4162	"Oreyemi, A. B., R. A. Sanusi, L. O. Okojie, A. O. Olaiya; D. Akerele"	2015	Produce certification and income risk management strategies of cocoa farming households in South-west Nigeria.	"Agricultural produce certification is synonymous to farm assurance of which cocoa certification is an example; dealing with issues of Good Agricultural, Environmental and Social Practices (GAP, GEP and GSP) in cocoa production. Essentially, GAP, GEP and GSP packages had in-built mechanism that can aid farmers mitigate factors that could lead to farm income risks in cocoa production. Consequently, this study examined the influence of cocoa certification on income risks of cocoa farming households in South-west Nigeria. A multistage sampling technique was used to select 180 cocoa farming households from whose heads data were obtained with interview schedule in Southwest Nigeria. Data were analyzed with Chi-square Statistic, Income Risk Management Diversification Index (IRD) and Mann-Whitney-U Test Statistic. Chi-square analysis shows that (52.3%) certified cocoa farming households employed more risk management strategies than (94.2%) uncertified cocoa farming households (p<0.01). The Mann-Whitney-U test revealed a significant difference (p>0.05) between the income risk management practices of certified and uncertified cocoa farming households. Therefore, produce certification has been helping cocoa farming households in mitigating farm income risk in cocoa production through the employment of diverse (risk) management strategies. Hence, stakeholders should intensify efforts in encouraging farming households to embrace (cocoa) produce certification."	Applied Studies in Agribusiness and Commerce 9: 75-79. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.19041/APSTRACT/2015/3/10	Nigeria	"9.0820, 8.6753"	Cocoa	Cocoa	GLOBALG.A.P	Smalholder	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	Interviews and questionnaires	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported						Data Reported									Data Reported									
5463	"Perez-Ramirez M., Castrejon M., Gutierrez N.L.;  Defeo O"	2015	"The Marine Stewardship Council certification in Latin America and the Caribbean: A review of experiences, potentials and pitfalls"	"The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification program is a market-based instrument aimed at recognizing sustainable fishing practices. Although there are 10 MSC-certified fisheries in Latin American and the Caribbean (LAC), this proportion is low (4%) compared to the total number of certified fisheries globally. Therefore, implementation of MSC certification in LAC fisheries is examined by considering: (1) fishing industry drivers for certification and (2) certified fisheries performance against the MSC standard. The MSC certification was suitable for large multi-national enterprises with export-oriented markets and for small-scale fisheries with exclusive access rights harvesting high-value resources. Maintaining or increasing market-share was a main motivation to pursue certification. Most LAC certified fisheries showed high performance in terms of stock status, governance and management systems. However, the expansion of the MSC certification in LAC remains limited by: (1) intrinsic weaknesses of fisheries in the region (shortage of information and instability in governance systems); and (2) high costs associated to certification and extrinsic market conditions (price shocks and demand retractions). Innovative strategies to encourage the development of domestic certified seafood markets, and a major inclusiveness of small-scale fisheries with traditional management arrangements at the local level, could constitute significant steps toward a more sustainable pathway on a regional scale. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier B.V."	Fisheries Research 182  50-58 DOI:10.1016/j.fishres.2015.11.007	Argentina	"-38.416100, -63.616700 "	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Fisheries	Fisheries	Producer	Mixed methods	"MSC public certification reports, surveillance reports, external databases, scientific literature, personal communication with key informants (fishermen organisations representatives and fish industry managers)"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								
5463	"Perez-Ramirez M., Castrejon M., Gutierrez N.L.;  Defeo O"	2015	"The Marine Stewardship Council certification in Latin America and the Caribbean: A review of experiences, potentials and pitfalls"	"The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification program is a market-based instrument aimed at recognizing sustainable fishing practices. Although there are 10 MSC-certified fisheries in Latin American and the Caribbean (LAC), this proportion is low (4%) compared to the total number of certified fisheries globally. Therefore, implementation of MSC certification in LAC fisheries is examined by considering: (1) fishing industry drivers for certification and (2) certified fisheries performance against the MSC standard. The MSC certification was suitable for large multi-national enterprises with export-oriented markets and for small-scale fisheries with exclusive access rights harvesting high-value resources. Maintaining or increasing market-share was a main motivation to pursue certification. Most LAC certified fisheries showed high performance in terms of stock status, governance and management systems. However, the expansion of the MSC certification in LAC remains limited by: (1) intrinsic weaknesses of fisheries in the region (shortage of information and instability in governance systems); and (2) high costs associated to certification and extrinsic market conditions (price shocks and demand retractions). Innovative strategies to encourage the development of domestic certified seafood markets, and a major inclusiveness of small-scale fisheries with traditional management arrangements at the local level, could constitute significant steps toward a more sustainable pathway on a regional scale. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier B.V."	Fisheries Research 182  50-58 DOI:10.1016/j.fishres.2015.11.007	Chile	" -35.675100, -71.543000 "	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Fisheries	Fisheries	Producer	Mixed methods	"MSC public certification reports, surveillance reports, external databases, scientific literature, personal communication with key informants (fishermen organisations representatives and fish industry managers)"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								
5463	"Perez-Ramirez M., Castrejon M., Gutierrez N.L.;  Defeo O"	2015	"The Marine Stewardship Council certification in Latin America and the Caribbean: A review of experiences, potentials and pitfalls"	"The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification program is a market-based instrument aimed at recognizing sustainable fishing practices. Although there are 10 MSC-certified fisheries in Latin American and the Caribbean (LAC), this proportion is low (4%) compared to the total number of certified fisheries globally. Therefore, implementation of MSC certification in LAC fisheries is examined by considering: (1) fishing industry drivers for certification and (2) certified fisheries performance against the MSC standard. The MSC certification was suitable for large multi-national enterprises with export-oriented markets and for small-scale fisheries with exclusive access rights harvesting high-value resources. Maintaining or increasing market-share was a main motivation to pursue certification. Most LAC certified fisheries showed high performance in terms of stock status, governance and management systems. However, the expansion of the MSC certification in LAC remains limited by: (1) intrinsic weaknesses of fisheries in the region (shortage of information and instability in governance systems); and (2) high costs associated to certification and extrinsic market conditions (price shocks and demand retractions). Innovative strategies to encourage the development of domestic certified seafood markets, and a major inclusiveness of small-scale fisheries with traditional management arrangements at the local level, could constitute significant steps toward a more sustainable pathway on a regional scale. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier B.V."	Fisheries Research 182  50-58 DOI:10.1016/j.fishres.2015.11.007	Mexico	"23.634500, -102.552800 "	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Fisheries	Fisheries	Producer	Mixed methods	"MSC public certification reports, surveillance reports, external databases, scientific literature, personal communication with key informants (fishermen organisations representatives and fish industry managers)"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								
5463	"Perez-Ramirez M., Castrejon M., Gutierrez N.L.;  Defeo O"	2015	"The Marine Stewardship Council certification in Latin America and the Caribbean: A review of experiences, potentials and pitfalls"	"The Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification program is a market-based instrument aimed at recognizing sustainable fishing practices. Although there are 10 MSC-certified fisheries in Latin American and the Caribbean (LAC), this proportion is low (4%) compared to the total number of certified fisheries globally. Therefore, implementation of MSC certification in LAC fisheries is examined by considering: (1) fishing industry drivers for certification and (2) certified fisheries performance against the MSC standard. The MSC certification was suitable for large multi-national enterprises with export-oriented markets and for small-scale fisheries with exclusive access rights harvesting high-value resources. Maintaining or increasing market-share was a main motivation to pursue certification. Most LAC certified fisheries showed high performance in terms of stock status, governance and management systems. However, the expansion of the MSC certification in LAC remains limited by: (1) intrinsic weaknesses of fisheries in the region (shortage of information and instability in governance systems); and (2) high costs associated to certification and extrinsic market conditions (price shocks and demand retractions). Innovative strategies to encourage the development of domestic certified seafood markets, and a major inclusiveness of small-scale fisheries with traditional management arrangements at the local level, could constitute significant steps toward a more sustainable pathway on a regional scale. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier B.V."	Fisheries Research 182  50-58 DOI:10.1016/j.fishres.2015.11.007	Suriname	" 3.919300, -56.027800"	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Fisheries	Fisheries	Producer	Mixed methods	"MSC public certification reports, surveillance reports, external databases, scientific literature, personal communication with key informants (fishermen organisations representatives and fish industry managers)"	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								
9500	"Pinto L.F.G., Goncalves E.T., Berkembrock D., Yamada M.; Sorice L."	2013	"Characteristics, potential and limitations of various types of socio-environmental certification for agroforestry systems"	"Socio-environmental certification is a voluntary market-based instrument, which aims to promote changes in productive sectors through economic incentives. Thus, it should be part of the policies and mechanisms that promote or encourage the maintenance and the adoption of agroforestry production systems in a systematic way in Brazil. This study aims to evaluate the role, opportunities and challenges of socio-environmental certification for agroforestry systems, through three case studies: Reca project; Fazendas Reunidas Vale do Juliana; and the socio-participatory certification of nikkei producers in Par√°, Brazil. It was observed that there are various socio-environmental certification systems applicable to agroforestry systems and with projects already implemented in Brazil, covering socio-participatory schemes and third-party ones. Each one offers benefits and limitations to their application. The upscaling of agroforestry certification requires that they are more applicable to this situation and more accessible to family farmers and communities. Also, they need the support of public policies and effective and long-term partnerships between producers and companies of the commodity chains that use products of agroforestry origin."	Citrus R&T  (e-ISSN 2236-3122)  http://citrusrt.centrodecitricultura.br DOI: 10.5935/2236-3122.20130002	Brazil	"-9.7965758,-68.7618477"	Agroforestry	Various	Various	Various		Producer			Comparison of case studies	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported																Data Reported								
G02	"Qiao, Yuhui; Halberg, Niels; Vaheesan, Saminathan; Scott, Steffanie"	2016	Assessing the social and economic benefits of organic and fair trade tea production for small-scale farmers in Asia: a comparative case study of China and Sri Lanka	"Organic agriculture has the potential to provide improved livelihood opportunities, increased income and social benefits for resource-poor small-scale farmers. It has thus become a popular strategy for economic development and poverty reduction in many areas of the global south. However, there has been limited empirical research regarding the actual benefits of certified organic production, particularly when organic is combined with fair trade certification, and for small-scale farmers who are not engaged in coffee or banana production. Further research is needed to demonstrate experiences of farmers under diverse socioeconomic conditions, organizational contexts and degrees of market access. To address these gaps, two surveys of certified organic and fair trade tea producers in China and Sri Lanka were undertaken to investigate the contributions of organic crops to the household economy. In both cases, organic production required lower investment in terms of external inputs but a higher input of farmersỲÄô labor. The price premium received by farmers for the organic tea compensated for the extra labor input and lower yield, resulting in a net profit. However, given the relatively small plots of tea gardens of each household, organic production could not fully provide for the householdsỲÄô livelihood. Non-farm income dominated the total income of the households across the study cases, despite the earnings from organic farming. In both sites, market-oriented organic tea projects have created more options for paid work locally, which benefits women of reproductive age. Social benefits of organic farming were also reported. Pursuing fair trade certification on top of organic production facilitated farmer organizing, training and community development. Organic agriculture and fair trade certification offer important prospects to improve the livelihoods of small-scale farmers in other, less favored areas of Asia. These forms of certified production could provide economic and social benefits in instances where farm income is the main source of household income."	Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems 31 3 246-257 DOI:10.1017/S1742170515000162	China	"29.25, 117.85 "	Tea	Tea	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; villages; independent enterprises	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews, production data, focus groups, contextual data from co-ops, companies etc."	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported	
G02	"Qiao, Yuhui; Halberg, Niels; Vaheesan, Saminathan; Scott, Steffanie"	2016	Assessing the social and economic benefits of organic and fair trade tea production for small-scale farmers in Asia: a comparative case study of China and Sri Lanka	"Organic agriculture has the potential to provide improved livelihood opportunities, increased income and social benefits for resource-poor small-scale farmers. It has thus become a popular strategy for economic development and poverty reduction in many areas of the global south. However, there has been limited empirical research regarding the actual benefits of certified organic production, particularly when organic is combined with fair trade certification, and for small-scale farmers who are not engaged in coffee or banana production. Further research is needed to demonstrate experiences of farmers under diverse socioeconomic conditions, organizational contexts and degrees of market access. To address these gaps, two surveys of certified organic and fair trade tea producers in China and Sri Lanka were undertaken to investigate the contributions of organic crops to the household economy. In both cases, organic production required lower investment in terms of external inputs but a higher input of farmersỲÄô labor. The price premium received by farmers for the organic tea compensated for the extra labor input and lower yield, resulting in a net profit. However, given the relatively small plots of tea gardens of each household, organic production could not fully provide for the householdsỲÄô livelihood. Non-farm income dominated the total income of the households across the study cases, despite the earnings from organic farming. In both sites, market-oriented organic tea projects have created more options for paid work locally, which benefits women of reproductive age. Social benefits of organic farming were also reported. Pursuing fair trade certification on top of organic production facilitated farmer organizing, training and community development. Organic agriculture and fair trade certification offer important prospects to improve the livelihoods of small-scale farmers in other, less favored areas of Asia. These forms of certified production could provide economic and social benefits in instances where farm income is the main source of household income."	Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems 31 3 246-257 DOI:10.1017/S1742170515000162	Sri Lanka	"29.25, 117.85 ; 7.333333, 80.75"	Tea	Tea	Organic; Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; villages; independent enterprises	Farmers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Interviews, production data, focus groups, contextual data from co-ops, companies etc."	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported	
3823	"Rijn, Fedes van; Judge, Lucas; Fort, Ricardo; Koster, Tinka; Waarts, Yuca; Ruben, Ruerd"	2016	Fairtrade certification in the banana hired labour sector	"Evidence is needed about the difference that certification makes to workers on banana plantations. The Fairtrade system is therefore investing in monitoring to understand the difference certification makes to banana workers' employment, living and working conditions, and empowerment. This study meets this need by gathering data on a range of indicators. This study (1) gathers baseline data on indicators and themes that monitor the progress of implementation of Fairtrade's revised hired labour standards on certified plantations in key banana origins; (2) based on this data it research and analyses the difference that Fairtrade makes across key themes in comparison to non-certified contexts; it prioritises workers' voices and perspectives in achieving the objectives of the study. It particularly focuses on understanding the role of Fairtrade in supporting worker empowerment and empowerment-related goals. Focus countries are Ghana, Colombia and the Dominican Republic."	LEI Report 2015 - 056. 46 pp. http://edepot.wur.nl/370490	Colombia	"4.570900, -74.297300 "	Fruit	Banana	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Pantations	Individual wageworkers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Field Experiments, Interviews (freeform), Household Surveys "	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported						Data Reported							
3823	"Rijn, Fedes van; Judge, Lucas; Fort, Ricardo; Koster, Tinka; Waarts, Yuca; Ruben, Ruerd"	2016	Fairtrade certification in the banana hired labour sector	"Evidence is needed about the difference that certification makes to workers on banana plantations. The Fairtrade system is therefore investing in monitoring to understand the difference certification makes to banana workers' employment, living and working conditions, and empowerment. This study meets this need by gathering data on a range of indicators. This study (1) gathers baseline data on indicators and themes that monitor the progress of implementation of Fairtrade's revised hired labour standards on certified plantations in key banana origins; (2) based on this data it research and analyses the difference that Fairtrade makes across key themes in comparison to non-certified contexts; it prioritises workers' voices and perspectives in achieving the objectives of the study. It particularly focuses on understanding the role of Fairtrade in supporting worker empowerment and empowerment-related goals. Focus countries are Ghana, Colombia and the Dominican Republic."	LEI Report 2015 - 056. 46 pp. http://edepot.wur.nl/370490	Dominican Republic	"18.735700, -70.162700 "	Fruit	Banana	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Pantations	Individual wageworkers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Field Experiments, Interviews (freeform), Household Surveys "	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported						Data Reported							
3823	"Rijn, Fedes van; Judge, Lucas; Fort, Ricardo; Koster, Tinka; Waarts, Yuca; Ruben, Ruerd"	2016	Fairtrade certification in the banana hired labour sector	"Evidence is needed about the difference that certification makes to workers on banana plantations. The Fairtrade system is therefore investing in monitoring to understand the difference certification makes to banana workers' employment, living and working conditions, and empowerment. This study meets this need by gathering data on a range of indicators. This study (1) gathers baseline data on indicators and themes that monitor the progress of implementation of Fairtrade's revised hired labour standards on certified plantations in key banana origins; (2) based on this data it research and analyses the difference that Fairtrade makes across key themes in comparison to non-certified contexts; it prioritises workers' voices and perspectives in achieving the objectives of the study. It particularly focuses on understanding the role of Fairtrade in supporting worker empowerment and empowerment-related goals. Focus countries are Ghana, Colombia and the Dominican Republic."	LEI Report 2015 - 056. 46 pp. http://edepot.wur.nl/370490	Ghana	"7.946500, -1.023200"	Fruit	Banana	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Pantations	Individual wageworkers	Producer	Mixed methods	"Field Experiments, Interviews (freeform), Household Surveys "	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported						Data Reported						Data Reported							
G05	"Ruben, Ruerd; Fort, Ricardo"	2012	The Impact of Fair Trade Certification for Coffee Farmers in Peru	"Smallholder farmers producing for Fair Trade market outlets are usually considered to benefit from better prices and stable market outlets. However, many empirical studies verifying this impact suffer from strong selection bias. This study uses a balanced sample of Fair Trade farmers and likewise nonFair Trade producers of organic and conventional coffee from Peru to compare the net effects on production, income and expenditures, wealth and investments, and attitudes and perceptions. After careful matching, we find only modest direct income and production effects, but significant changes in organization, input use, wealth and assets, and risk attitudes. Moreover, important differences between farmers with early and more recent FT affiliation are registered."	World Development 40 3 570-582 DOI:10.1016/j.worlddev.2011.07.030	Peru	"-10.94, -75.40"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Farmers	Co-operatives	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported						Data Reported	
G12	"Ruben, Ruerd; Zuniga, Guillermo"	2011	How standards compete: comparative impact of coffee certification schemes in Northern Nicaragua	"Smallholder farmers are increasingly subject to different types of standards that offer specific conditions for their market incorporation. The proliferation of private and voluntary (civic) standards raises questions regarding their impact on farmers' welfare and their role in the upgrading of value chains. This paper aims to address this issue. Based on extensive fieldwork and careful matching of 315 farmers in Northern Nicaragua who produce coffee under Fair Trade, Rainforest Alliance and Caf√© Practices labels or deliver to independent traders, the effects on income, production and investments are compared. Moreover, the implications of different contract conditions for risk behaviour, organizational force, loyalty and gender attitudes are assessed. The paper finds that Fair Trade provides better prices compared with independent producers, but private labels outỲÄêcompete Fair Trade in terms of yield and quality performance. While Fair Trade can be helpful to support initial market incorporation, private labels offer more suitable incentives for quality upgrading. Civic standards exhibit major effects on local institutions' and farmers' behaviour, while B2B standards are more effective for improving production and management practices. Dynamic improvement standards may bridge the gap between both. Fair Trade standards are useful to provide initial market access to smallỲÄêholders, but private standards offer better prospects for subsequent quality upgrading.This is the first largeỲÄêscale comparative impact assessment of coffee standards that delivers unbiased empirical results."	Supply Chain Management: An International Journal 16 2 98_109 	Nicaragua	"13.789400, -86.012200"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance; Rainforest Alliance; Cafe practices	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Household surveys	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported							
G11-2032	"Rueda, X.; Lambin, E. F."	2013	Responding to globalization: impacts of certification on Colombian small-scale coffee growers	"Eco-certification of food and other agricultural products has been promoted as a way of making markets work for sustainability. Certification programs offer a price premium to producers who invest in more sustainable practices. The literature on the impacts of certification has focused primarily on the economic benefits farmers perceive from participating in these schemes. These benefits, however, are often subject to price variability, offering only a partial explanation of why farmers join and stay in certification programs. We evaluated the potential of the Rainforest Alliance certification program to foster more resilient social-ecological systems in the face of globalization. Using the case of Santander, Colombia, and a pair-based comparison of 86 households to effectively produce a robust counterfactual, we showed that certification provides important environmental benefits, while improving the well-being of farmers and their communities. Furthermore, the study showed that price premiums are only one of many elements defining the success of certification, particularly important for motivating farmers to join, but less so to explain retention and upgrading. The case of Colombian coffee growers illustrates how the connections between local social-ecological systems and larger global forces can produce more sustainable livelihoods and land uses."	Ecology and Society 18  Art-21 	Colombia	"6.64, -73.65"	Coffee	Coffee	Rainforest Alliance	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Mixed methods	Interviews with key informants and household surveys	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported				Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported
G14-2344	"Rueda, X.; Thomas, N. E.; Lambin, E. F."	2014	Eco-certification and coffee cultivation enhance tree cover and forest connectivity in the Colombian coffee landscapes	"Eco-certification of agricultural commodities offers an appealing option to promote more sustainable practices among smallholders, increase agricultural value, and lift farmers out of poverty through better market access. This study evaluates whether coffee cultivation is associated with changes in forest cover and forest fragmentation and whether the Rainforest Alliance eco-certification program has led to enhanced tree cover and greater landscape connectivity in the Colombian eastern Andes. Based on satellite imagery, geo-referenced coffee parcels and a pair_case comparison, we show that coffee-growing regions have larger areas in forest, larger forest patches, and better connectivity among patches than non-coffee areas. These differences, however, do not seem to be accentuated over time, except for dense forest cover in the coffee-growing region. The latter has increased since the introduction of a certification program that requires protection of forest remnants and riparian vegetation. Moreover, certified farms in the study area have increased the amount of tree cover on their plots significantly more than non-certified ones. Our study design, therefore, detects additionality in the impact of certification on tree cover increase: in a region with overall increase in tree cover, certified farms contributed significantly more to that trend than non-certified farms. This study presents the first evaluation of the impacts of certification in cultivated landscapes at the ecosystem level, detectable by Earth observation satellites. √•¬© 2014, Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg."	Regional Environmental Change 15  25-33 DOI:10.1007/s10113-014-0607-y	Colombia	"6.64, -73.65"	Coffee	Coffee	Rainforest Alliance	Smallholders	Forest area	Producer	Mapping Data	Landsat TM and ETM+	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported																								
10219	"Saswattecha, K.; Kroeze, C.; Jawjit, W.; Hein, L."	2015	Assessing the environmental impact of palm oil produced in Thailand	"There are several concerns related to the increasing production of palm oil in Southeast Asia, including pollution, greenhouse gas emissions and land conversion. The RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) certification standard provides an incentive for reducing environmental impacts of palm oil production but to date, only few producers have been certified and studies on environmental implications of RSPO certification in Thailand are scarce. The objective of this study is to assess environmental impacts of palm oil production in Thailand. A case study is conducted in the Tapi River basin, accounting for 60% of palm oil production in Thailand. We developed a model to quantify effects of different management practices in plantations and mills producing Crude-Palm-Oil (CPO) - including non-RSPO, potential RSPO, and RSPO certified producers. Our study shows that five activities contribute most to environmental impacts of CPO production; 1) burning fibers in boilers,2) use of fertilizers, 3) wastewater treatment and empty-fruit-bunch disposal, 4) gasoline use in weed cutters and 5) glyphosate use for weed control. Together these activities cause environmental impacts associated with global warming, ozone formation, acidification, and human toxicity problems. RSPO certified producers cause the lowest environmental impacts due to better waste management such as biogas production from wastewater. We found that environmental performance of the most environmental friendly mills considerably exceeds the RSPO standards, which may be related to the interventions of an environmental project in the Tapi basin. Currently, only 11% of CPO in the Tapi River basin is produced by RSPO certified mills, and non-CPO certified mills produce around 60% of CPO. Most of environmental impacts of palm oil production in the basin are therefore caused by non-RSPO certified palm oil mills. We explored two alternative scenarios illustrating that if more mills in the basin would adopt best-practice CPO production processes in line with those group named ""RSPO certified"", environmental impacts generated in the basin will be considerably lower. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved."	Journal of Cleaner Production 100  150-169 DOI:10.1016/j.jclepro.2015.03.037	Thailand	"9.133900, 99.326700"	Palm Oil	Palm oil	Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)	Smallholders; Co-operatives; Farms	Smallholders; Co-operatives; Farms	Producer; Processor 	Mixed methods	"Lit review, farmer interviews and mill visits"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																				Data Reported			Data Reported	
3562	"Satoshi, Nakamura; Takahiro, Tsuge; Satoru, Okubo; Kazuhiko, Takeuchi; Nisikawa, Usio"	2014	"Exploring Factors Affecting Farmers' Implementation of Wildlife-Friendly Farming on Sado Island, Japan"	"Implementing wildlife-friendly farming (WFF) practices is a sound approach to sustain ecological restoration of farmland. The aims of the study were to explore factors affecting farmers' implementation of WFF practices on Sado Island, Japan and to consider the policy implications of disseminating such practices. All 5010 farming households on Sado Island, who are distributing rice to Japan Agricultural Cooperatives (JA), were surveyed. In total, 2231 households responded to the questionnaire (response 44.5%). By comparing the attitudes, beliefs, and attributes of non-certified versus certified farmers, we identified key factors affecting farmers' implementation of WFF practices. Compared with non-certified farmers, certified farmers: (i) showed a greater interest in biodiversity and the financial benefits of WFF; (ii) had a larger number of certified farmer friends; (iii) felt many more pressures and expectations from consumers, in particular; and (iv) were not hampered by bad labor or farmland conditions when implementing WFF practices. To further disseminate WFF practices in Sado, we suggest that the information on the effectiveness of WFF on paddy field biodiversity is used in public education, and opportunities for interchanging opinions are set up between non-certified and certified farmers, as well as between farmers and consumers."	Journal of Resources and Ecology 5 4 370-380 DOI:10.5814/j.issn.1674-764x.2014.04.013	Japan	"38.018400, 138.368100"	Rice	Rice	Toki Brand Rice Certification Initiative	Co-operatives; Farms; houesholds	Households	Producer	Online surveys ; Questionnaire	N/A	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported								Data Reported																
3498	"Selden, R. L.; Valencia, S. R.; Larsen, A. E.; Cornejo-Donoso, J.; Wasserman, A. A."	2016	Evaluating seafood eco-labeling as a mechanism to reduce collateral impacts of fisheries in an ecosystem-based fisheries management context	"By considering not only target species catch but also bycatch of non-target species and habitat damage, ecosystem-based fisheries management (EBFM) has the potential to minimize the environmental impact of fisheries. Defining and benchmarking EBFM strategies for these incidental environmental impacts has been challenging, and this lack of consensus has, in part, resulted in a proliferation of eco-labeling schemes with variable and vague criteria for environmental targets. The performance of fisheries certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), the most prominent eco-labeling certifier, was compared to non-certified fisheries and evaluated against target reference points for a suite of metrics derived from the EBFM literature. Specifically we compared marine mammal bycatch, finfish discard rates, and gear impacts between MSC-certified fisheries and non-certified fisheries. Discards of non-target finfish and bycatch rates of marine mammals were no different between certified and non-certified U.S. fisheries. Observer coverage was no higher in certified fisheries, and many fisheries failed to meet the coverage level thought adequate to document bycatch of protected species. MSC-certified fisheries did have lower average gear destructiveness scores than non-certified stocks when weighted by landings but not when weighted by the number of fisheries. Our analysis indicates that MSC-certified fisheries perform better on some ecosystem-based sustainability metrics but are indistinguishable from non-certified stocks on others, and improvement is needed for all certified fisheries to meet quantitative goals for the collateral impacts of fishing. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier Ltd."	Marine Policy 64  102-115 DOI:10.1016/j.marpol.2015.11.010	USA	"38.9072,-77.0369"	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Fisheries	Fisheries	Producer	Government data	National reports and fisheries data	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported																Data Reported								
10896	"Seol, M.H.,  Chun, J. N."	2009	"Incorporated Model to Improve Profits of Forest Communities and Non-Governmental Organizations with Application of Forest Certification: Case Study of KOSTAJASA, Central Java, Indonesia"	"This case study is written to propose a practical business model for forest communities inAsia and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) who are supporting them. Forest communities inAsia have not been able to negotiate a fair price for selling their products because they are usually preventedto find a proper deal by scattered distribution of forest production origins and lack of marketinginformation which can be caused by remote distance from markets. On the other side, most environmentalNGOs have experienced to secure their fund to support forest communities and sustain themselves.In addition, although it is very crucial to ensure a minimum fund for their ethical activities, pursuingprofits, no matter what the reason is, makes them who work in the philanthropic field feel guilty. Weexpect this case study of KOSTAJASA, which is synthesized from a series of audits conducted byRainforest Alliance SmartWood audit team at Central Java, Indonesia, between October 26 andNovember 3, 2008, can contribute forest communities in Asia and environmental NGOs to find a profitablebusiness model for advancing forest peopleỲÄôs life, suggesting an example of environmental marketingto NGOs, and eventually supporting the environment on the earth."	The Journal of the Korean Society of International Agriculture.  http://db.koreascholar.com/article.aspx?code=284622	Indonesia	"0.7893, 113.9213"	Forest sector	Timber	Rainforest Alliance	Farmers and Companies	Farmers and companies	Producer; Processor	Interviews (freeform)		Pre-Post	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported		Data Reported		Data Reported									
5987	"Shreck, A."	2002	Just bananas? Fair Trade banana production in the Dominican Republic	"In an effort to alter exploitative relations that characterize the conventional agro-food system, Fair Trade organizations are promoting an alternative system of certification and labeling for commodities such as coffee, cacao, and bananas that are grown under healthy social and environmental conditions. Labels then identify these products to conscientious consumers who are willing to pay more for them with the expectation that higher prices will deliver additional returns to producers. Yet, do these initiatives offer a real alternative and can they foster positive social change in the agro-food system? Drawing on fieldwork in the Dominican Republic, this paper addresses the implications of Fair Trade at the level of production. I focus on a case study of a certified banana producer group to suggest that production for the Fair Trade market can provide much needed material benefits, strengthen the producers' organization, and open up critical market access to Fair Trade partners. However, I also discuss important limits to the broader potential of Fair Trade initiatives for transforming trade relations. Fair Trade should not be ignored as an alternative mode of production or trade but, rather, a better understanding of how they are experienced by producers can help address the limits of the initiatives."	International Journal of Sociology of Agriculture and Food 10  13-23 	Dominican Republic 	"18.7356, -70.1626"	Fruit	Banana	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Smallholders	Smallholders	Producer	Interviews (freeform)	N/A	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported							Data Reported				Data Reported													
1364	"Smith Dumont, E.; Gnahoua, G. M.; Ohouo, L.; Sinclair, F. L.; Vaast, P."	2014	Farmers in Cote d'Ivoire value integrating tree diversity in cocoa for the provision of ecosystem services	"Côte d’Ivoire produces 40 % of the world supply of cocoa but much of the plantation area is aging and declining in productivity, while opportunities for land expansion into new forest land are quickly disappearing. Rejuvenation strategies for cocoa presently coalesce either around improved varieties and greater use of agro-chemical inputs in full sun systems or eco-certification that requires trees to be integrated with cocoa. Here, we explore the possibility of uniting these approaches through building on current farmer practice of incorporating trees in their cocoa fields to improve cocoa productivity and diversify their livelihoods. We interviewed 355 farmers about trees integrated in their cocoa fields across four locations in the South-West of Côte d’Ivoire in 2012, stratified by whether or not farmers were eco-certified. Despite the massive deforestation, a rich diversity of trees was found in cocoa fields and an overwhelming majority of farmers (95 %) wanted more trees and/or more tree species, regardless of their certification status or ethnic origin. There was a consensus that most trees were compatible with cocoa, but farmers also traded off negative impacts of some species against their productive contribution to their livelihood. Farmers valued tree diversity on their cocoa plots and provided detailed information on how 32 tree species interacted with cocoa in terms of soil moisture retention, soil fertility improvement and pest and disease interactions but also had key gaps in knowledge about alternative hosts of mirids and mistletoe. The majority of farmers were not aware of the certification requirements for tree species and shade cover but a much higher proportion of certified farmers (76 %) had received information about shade trees than non-certified farmers (15 %), although advice only related to eight tree species. Scope for building on local knowledge and practice to sustainably increase cocoa productivity through promoting tree diversity while enhancing other ecosystem service provision was identified and the next steps required to realize this set out. © 2014, The Author(s)."	Agroforestry Systems 88  1047-1066 DOI:10.1007/s10457-014-9679-4	Cote d'Ivoire	"5.356800, -6.749400"	Cocoa	Cocoa	Rainforest Alliance; UTZ 	Farmers	Farmers	Producer	Household surveys	Structured and open ended questions and household data	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported											Data Reported					
12427	"Smith, J."	2007	The search for sustainable markets: the promise and failures of fair trade.	"Fair trade promises to transform small-scale coffee farming by ensuring a fair price to producers, improving market access for small producers, and creating closer ties between producers and consumers. However, as the fair-trade market has grown from a small social movement to a substantial niche market, the relationships between producers and consumers have become less personal and the market more demanding of producers. By examining the experience of COOPABUENA, a coffee cooperative in southern Costa Rica, the ways in which these changes have discouraged producers can be seen. Here, fair trade has never become more than a small outlet for higher-priced coffee, whereas other alternate markets and institutions play the role of increasing small-producer incomes, helping to develop sustainable agricultural systems, and building links between Costa Rican producers and U.S. customers. For at least some producers, fair trade has failed to carry out its promise. "	Culture & Agriculture 29 (2):89-99. Special issue: Rethinking free trade/fair trade. http://dx.doi.org/10.1525/cag.2007.29.2.89	Costa Rica	"9.7489, -83.7534"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade	Cooperative	Smallscale farmers	Producer	Interviews (freeform)		Pre-Post 	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported				Data Reported			Data Reported											
9764	"Souza A.P.O., de Oliveira Sans E.C., Mueller B.R. & Molento C.F.M"	2015	Broiler chicken welfare assessment in GLOBALGAP (R) certified and non-certified farms in Brazil	"Regarding broilers, Brazil is the third largest producer and the leading chicken meat exporter in the world. Independent certifications are required by some importers in the European Union (EU) to guarantee compliance with minimum welfare requirements. Our objective was to compare broiler chicken welfare in GLOBALGAP (R) certified (C) and non-certified (N) intensive farms in the State of Parana, Brazil, using the Welfare Quality (R) protocol. Ten farms in each group were evaluated and data were transformed using scores that ranged from 0 to 100, where 100 is the best condition. Results suggested that farms adhered to minimum welfare standards, regardless of certification and that the adoption of standards based on overseas rules may have limitations for the improvement of animal welfare. In order to further improve broiler welfare in Brazil, more rigorous standards should be developed."	Animal Welfare 24 1 45-54 DOI:10.7120/09627286.24.1.045	Brazil	"-25.296972, -54.094917"	Livestock	Chicken	GLOBALG.A.P	Co-operatives; Farms	Farms	Producer	Mixed methods	"Field experiments, Surveys, "	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported																Data Reported								
G07-1326	"Stemle, A.; Uchida, H.; Roheim, C. A."	2015	Have dockside prices improved after MSC certification? analysis of multiple fisheries	"A number of studies have investigated consumers' payment of a price premium for ecolabeled seafood from sustainability-certified fisheries, however studies of price premiums for certified fish at the dockside (ex-vessel) level remain scarce. This paper examines the effect of Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification on ex-vessel prices from three different fisheries: salmon and halibut in Alaska, and flathead flounder in Kyoto, Japan. A difference-in-difference approach (DiD) is used to estimate whether the relationship between ex-vessel prices of MSC-certified fisheries and market-competing non-certified fisheries have statistically changed after certification. Mixed results show that after certification significant increases occurred in the differences between ex-vessel prices for certified chum and pink salmon and flathead flounder relative to their uncertified counterparts, while the price difference declined between certified and uncertified sockeye salmon experienced significant negative effects. No significant effects were found for chinook and coho salmon and halibut. Results may be attributable to MSC certification or other unobservable variables influencing the certified fishery relative to the uncertified fishery. This paper adds to the literature on market and environmental effects of fisheries certification, which in aggregate continues to show ambiguous results across a landscape of fisheries globally. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier B.V."	Fisheries Research 182  116-123 DOI:10.1016/j.fishres.2015.07.022	USA	"64.200800, -149.493700 "	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Federation	Markets	Producer	Other	"Data from government, commercial and other administrations"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported			Data Reported										
G07-1326	"Stemle, A.; Uchida, H.; Roheim, C. A."	2015	Have dockside prices improved after MSC certification? analysis of multiple fisheries	"A number of studies have investigated consumers' payment of a price premium for ecolabeled seafood from sustainability-certified fisheries, however studies of price premiums for certified fish at the dockside (ex-vessel) level remain scarce. This paper examines the effect of Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification on ex-vessel prices from three different fisheries: salmon and halibut in Alaska, and flathead flounder in Kyoto, Japan. A difference-in-difference approach (DiD) is used to estimate whether the relationship between ex-vessel prices of MSC-certified fisheries and market-competing non-certified fisheries have statistically changed after certification. Mixed results show that after certification significant increases occurred in the differences between ex-vessel prices for certified chum and pink salmon and flathead flounder relative to their uncertified counterparts, while the price difference declined between certified and uncertified sockeye salmon experienced significant negative effects. No significant effects were found for chinook and coho salmon and halibut. Results may be attributable to MSC certification or other unobservable variables influencing the certified fishery relative to the uncertified fishery. This paper adds to the literature on market and environmental effects of fisheries certification, which in aggregate continues to show ambiguous results across a landscape of fisheries globally. √•¬© 2015 Elsevier B.V."	Fisheries Research 182  116-123 DOI:10.1016/j.fishres.2015.07.022	Japan	"35.689500, 139.691700"	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Federation	Markets	Producer	Other	"Data from government, commercial and other administrations"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported											Data Reported			Data Reported										
3003	"Stuart, D.; Benveniste, E.; Harris, L. M."	2014	Evaluating the use of an environmental assurance program to address pollution from United States cropland	"Voluntary market-based programs have been proposed as cost-effective means to reduce environmental impacts associated with agriculture. This study examines a relatively new program in Michigan USA, the Michigan Agriculture Environmental Assurance Program (MAEAP), and explores how it might serve to reduce nutrient pollution associated with intensive corn production. Interviews with corn farmers were used to explore reasons for program participation, the extent of management changes, and opinions regarding program effectiveness. Results indicate that most farmers enrolled in the program had already satisfied the majority of the requirements, therefore few changes were made that would result in environmental improvements. Interviews also revealed that in almost all cases, corn farmers were unable to market their products as MAEAP verified. Participation was largely driven by goals to avoid law enforcement and minor financial benefits through insurance discounts. Farmers indicated that a lack of monitoring and enforcement reduced the perceived effectiveness of the program. Most farmers favored direct payments through government conservation programs over MAEAP. This case illustrates the limitations of voluntary and market-based programs to address agri-environmental problems and supports the use of multiple policy approaches."	Land Use Policy 39  34-43 DOI:10.1016/j.landusepol.2014.03.009	USA	"44.314800, -85.602400"	Agriculture	Maize	MAEAP	Farmers	Farms	Producer	Interviews (freeform)	Questions developed from interviews with key informants	Pre-post	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported										Data Reported				Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported				
4701	"Sverdrup-Thygeson, A.; Borg, P.; Bergsaker, E."	2008	A comparison of biodiversity values in boreal forest regeneration areas before and after forest certification	"In this study, 236 regeneration areas (mostly clear-cuts) in southern Norway were selected by random stratified selection: 118 of the study units were cut before and 118 after the introduction of forest certification in 1998. The degree of compliance with biodiversity measures established in the prevailing certification standard (ISO 14001 and the Norwegian standard ""Living Forests"") was compared in a field study, and the differences were analysed. In some aspects, a clear difference could be seen, most clearly in an increasing number of green retention trees and an increasing mean width of buffer-strips left along rivers, bogs and lakes in the postcertification units compared with the precertification units. Even though there was a significant increase in the mean number of retention trees, as much as 21% of the postcertification regeneration areas still did not have sufficient retention trees to comply with the certification standard and 41% had either too few retention trees or too few spruce trees according to the standard. Concerning the management of small swamp forests, and the damage done to terrain and prelogging coarse dead wood by off-road transport, little improvement was seen. The discussion examines whether it is probable that the changes seen are a result of forest certification in Norway. √•¬© 2008 Taylor & Francis."	Scandinavian Journal of Forest Research 23  236-243 DOI:10.1080/02827580802158228	Norway	"59.391400, 8.321100"	Forest sector	Biodiversity	Living Forest Standards ; ISO 14001	Smallholders	Individual forest stands	Producer	Mixed methods	"Field experiments, Goverment Data"	Pre-post	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported																Data Reported			Data Reported					
9874	"Swezey, S. L., Goldman, P., Bryer, J., Nieto, D."	2007	"Six-year comparison between organic, IPM and conventional cotton production systems in the Northern San Joaquin Valley, California"	"Three different cotton production strategies [certified organic, conventionally grown, and reduced insecticide input/integrated pest management (IPM)] were compared in field-sized replicates in the Northern San Joaquin Valley (NSJV), California, from 1996 to 2001. We measured arthropod abundance, plant development, plant density, pesticide use, cost of production, lint quality and yields in the three treatments. Overall pest abundance was low, and a key cotton fruit pest, Lygus hesperus Knight, known as the western tarnished plant bug (WTPB), did not exceed action thresholds in any treatment. Organic fields had significantly more generalist insect predators than conventional fields during at least one seasonal interval in all but one year. While there were no significant differences in plant development, plant densities at harvest were lower in organic than conventional and IPM fields. Some measures of lint quality (color grade and bale leaf rating) were also lower in the organic treatment than in either the IPM or the conventional treatments. Synthetic insecticides, not allowed for use in organic production, were also used in significantly lower quantities in the IPM fields than in the conventional fields. Over the 6-year period of the study, IPM fields averaged 0.63 kg of active ingredient (AI) insecticide per hectare, as opposed to 1.02 kg AI ha-1 for conventional fields, a reduction of 38%. Costs of production per bale were on average 37% higher for organic than for conventional cotton. This cost differential was primarily due to greater hand-weeding costs and significantly lower yields in organic cotton, compared with either IPM or conventional cotton. Average 6-year yields were 4.4, 5.4 and 6.7 bales ha-1 for  organic, IPM and conventional treatments, respectively. Low world cotton prices and the lack of premium prices for organic cotton are the primary obstacles for continued production in the NSJV."	Renewable Agriculture and Food Systems: 22(1): 30_40 DOI:10.1017/S1742170507001573	USA	"36.7783, -119.4179"	Textiles	Cotton 	Organic	Farms	Farms	Producer	Field experiments		Matched (Not stated)	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported										Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported							
2131	"Takahashi, R.; Todo, Y."	2014	The impact of a shade coffee certification program on forest conservation using remote sensing and household data	"In recent years, shade coffee certification programs have attracted increasing attention from forest conservation and development organizations. The certification programs could be expected to promote forest conservation by providing a premium price to shade coffee producers. However, little is known about the significance of the conservation efforts generated by certification programs. In particular, the relationship between the impact of the certification and producer characteristics has yet to be examined. The purpose of this study, which was conducted in Ethiopia, was to examine the impact of a shade coffee certification program on forest conservation and its relationship with the socioeconomic characteristics of the producers. Remote sensing data of 2005 and 2010 was used to gauge the changes in forest area. Employing a probit model, we found that a forest coffee area being certified increased the probability of forest conservation by 19.3 percentage points relative to forest coffee areas lacking certification. We also found that although economically poor producers tended to engage in forest clearing, the forest coffee certification program had a significant impact on these producers. This result suggests that the certification program significantly affects the behaviors of economically poor producers and motivates these producers to conserve the forest. √•¬© 2013 Elsevier Inc."	Environmental Impact Assessment Review 44  76-81 DOI:10.1016/j.eiar.2013.10.002	Ethiopia	"7.55, 40.63"	Coffee	Coffee	Rainforest Alliance	Coffee associations	Forest plots	Producer	Mapping Data	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported											Data Reported						Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported					
9	"Tampe, Maja"	2016	Leveraging the Vertical: The Contested Dynamics of Sustainability Standards and Labour in Global Production Networks: Leveraging the Vertical	"Sustainability standards for tropical agriculture promise better trade and fairer labour conditions for smallholders. Recent research on labour suggests that, besides such standards, configurations of buyerỲÄìsupplier relationships crucially shape economic and labour conditions. However, a static configurational approach overlooks the role of supplier and labour agency over time. Using a matched case comparison of two certified rural enterprises in Ecuador, this article shows that suppliers can leverage standards to create value from vertical relationships with buyers. However, standards do not, by themselves, directly contribute to better conditions. They do so indirectly only if suppliers manage to become competitive in an elite market, augmenting rather than dampening unequal trade conditions. This study contributes to recent theory seeking to explain uneven labour outcomes with sustainability standards in global production networks."	British Journal of Industrial Relations    DOI:10.1111/bjir.12204	Ecuador 	"0.1807, -78.4678"	Cocoa	Cocoa	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance;Rainforest Alliance	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Co-operatives; Smallholders	Producer; Processor	Mixed methods	Interviews and Document analysis	Pre-post	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported								Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported							Data Reported
6154	"Tlusty, M. F. "	2014	Reviewing GAA-BAP shrimp farm data to determine whether certification lessens environmental impacts	"The sustainable seafood movement is over a decade old. It has done much to raise awareness regarding improper production and harvest of seafood and to derive a course to lessen the deleterious environmental impacts of this industry. Certification has been a key tool, yet few programmes have demonstrated comprehensive improvements. Here, the degree of aquaculture improvement through the implementation of certification was assessed using data from the Global Aquaculture Alliance (GAA) Best Aquaculture Practice (BAP) shrimp standard. An examination of 323 audits from 192 farms spanning 2005ỲÄì2012 showed that overall, 35% of the farms were conditionally certified, indicating they had to improve prior to being certified. This version of the BAP shrimp farm audit had both compliance and scored components. Out of the 28 critical points, only six were in full compliance by all farms during all audits and hence provided no value to determine farm performance. Farms that passed the audit without compliance issues had a greater aggregate scored value than those that farms with non compliances. However, performance-based metrics exhibited few differences between the compliant and noncompliant farms. Overall, issues pertaining to water quality were a leading cause of farms being scored as noncompliant, although they were distributed among the seven different water quality parameters. Certification systems have not been designed specifically to demonstrate adherence to continual improvement. Because of this, and the multitude of factors with which a fully compliant farm needs to acquiesce, the specific means by which certification improves aquaculture and the overall value of improvement will remain challenging to demonstrate    "	Reviews in Aquaculture 5: 1ỲÄì10. DOI: 0.1111/raq.12056	Global	"42.3143286,-71.0403233"	Aquaculture	Shrimp	GAA-BAP	Farms	individual farms	Producers		Other	GAA-BAP Audit data	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																			Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported	
G06	"Utting-Chamorro, Karla"	2005	Does fair trade make a difference? The case of small coffee producers in Nicaragua	"Fair trade represents an innovative approach to make the rules of global trade work for disadvantaged producers in the South and for sustainable development. But who are the real beneficiaries of fair trade? Has fair trade resulted in any discernible improvements in the lives of small coffee producers and their communities? This paper examines the effectiveness of fair trade as a development tool and the extent of its contribution to the alleviation of poverty in coffee-producing regions of Nicaragua. The paper argues that it is crucial to analyse the experiences and problems of small coffee producers and producer organisations involved in the fair trade market to ensure that the objectives and claims of fair trade are achieved in practice. The study concludes that there are limits to the extent to which fair trade can significantly raise the standard of living of small coffee producers because of factors such as the debt problems faced by cooperatives, lack of government support, and volatile international coffee prices."	Development in Practice 15 43163 584-599 DOI:10.1080/09614520500075706	Nicaragua	"12.86, -85.21"	Coffee	Coffee	Fair Trade; Rainforest Alliance	Individual; Co-operatives; Producer organisations	Small producers	Producer	Mixed methods	"qualitative (interviews with small producers, landless workers, and key informants) and participatory (both rapid and participatory rural appraisal) research methods"	N/A	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported					Data Reported		Data Reported	Data Reported			Data Reported		Data Reported			Data Reported	Data Reported							
RG3	"Waarts,Y.; Ingram, V.; Linderhof, V.; Puister-Jansen, L; van Rijn, F; Aryeetey, R."	2015	"Impact of UTZ certification on cocoa producers in Ghana, 2011 to 2014."		LEI Wageningen UR Den Haag 2015. LEI Report 2015-066. ISBN: 978-90-8615-715-0.    	Ghana	"6.666667, -1.616667; 6.1, -0.266667; 4.916667, -1.766667"	Cocoa	Cocoa	UTZ	Certified groups	Farmers 	Producer groups; Licensed buying companies.	Mixed methods	"Questionnaire (2011 & 2014); 8 f(controlled) ocus groups, interviews with organisations; interviews with cocao farm workers."	Matched	Data Reported	Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported					Data Reported		Data Reported				Data Reported												
G03	"Wakamatsu, H."	2014	The Impact of MSC Certification on a Japanese Certified Fishery	"This article investigates the impact of Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certification on a Japanese certified fishery. In September 2008, the MSC first certified the Kyoto Danish Seine Fishery Federation (KDSFF) as a sustainable fishery in Asia. In order to examine any impact of MSC certification on the KDSFF, this study examines structural changes in the market. Since no immediate impact of price premium changes can be realized, structural break tests and cointegration tests are conducted. The monthly ex-vessel price of flathead flounder in the Kyoto market is compared with those in the two adjacent uncertified markets. The structural break tests detected a significant impact two months after the KDSFF√å¬•s certification. The cointegration and Granger causality tests showed that the Kyoto market was previously influenced by other larger markets, but has become less subject to their influence after introduction of MSC certification."	Marine Resource Economics 29 1 55-67 DOI:https://doi.org/10.1086/676287	Japan	"35.01, 135.76"	Fishing	Fish	Marine Stewardship Council (MSC)	Federation	Markets	Producer	Other	Collected landing prices from co-ops with assistance of Kyoto Forestry and Fishery Technology Centre	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported																	Data Reported							
5698	"Wegner, R.; Turco, P. H. N.; Bliska, F. M. de M."	2013	Organic agriculture: socioeconomic sustainability of Brazilian coffee	"Worldwide, there is a growing demand for products made by technologies that contribute to environmental preservation and to sustainable rural development. In Brazil, organic farming is one of the most established initiatives in this area. Therefore, it is important to subsidize the decision-making regarding policies for organic coffee production. Thereby, this study analyzed the socio-economic sustainability of this production system in relation to conventional. We applied a semi-structured questionnaire on coffee farms in the Brazilian coffee producers states and analyzed the coffee production cost structure. We identified the reasons that led the producers to organic management, implications of certification on the management, and prices received by organic coffee and the market mechanism. Results showed that there is no standard for organic coffee production and marketing in Brazil. Among the producers, there are different levels of access to technical information and the main limitation of the organic coffee chain is not the technology of production, but the difficulty of coffee marketing. Another important limitation, for medium and large farms, is the cost of manpower, mainly in areas dominated by mountain, where machines operations are not viable. Moreover, the yield of organic coffee system is generally lower than the conventional. Furthermore, soil and climatic differences lead to different regional behavior. Finally, we could conclude that the production of organic coffee can be sustainable in Brazil mainly in two structural conditions: (1) family farmers; and (2) small producers, who employ only one or two workers, preferably only in the harvest time."	Journal of Agricultural Science and Technology A 3  20-32 	Brazil	"-18.512200, -44.555000"	Coffee	Coffee	Organic	Smallholders; Farms	Farms	Producer	Mixed methods	"Household surveys, Interviews (freeform)"	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported													Data Reported		Data Reported									
6267	"Werner, M. R."	1997	Soil quality characteristics during conversion to organic orchard management	"Soil quality measurements were made as part of a larger study of conversion to certified organic management in a California apple orchard, and results are reported here. The general objectives of the soil research were: (1) to compare soil properties between the two production systems (conventional and transitional organic); (2) relate observed differences to soil processes and management practices; and (3) determine the relative usefulness of each of the measured parameters as soil quality indicators. Bulk density and water holding capacity were useful indicators of changes in soil physical characteristics. Because treatment differences in bulk density were detected, biological and chemical data were expressed volumetrically to more closely approximate in-field values. EC, Ca, and Mg readings were used as an indication of the absence of significant salinity problems in both production systems. Soil pH in surface soils was mildly acidic, and values were slightly higher in the organic production system plots. Potentially mineralizable nitrogen and biomass carbon (C) were more sensitive indicators of system change than total N or organic C. Because microbial respiration was higher from organic plots on some sample dates. C loss via CO2 was evaluated against C inputs in the two systems. It was concluded that in both production systems, C inputs appear to outweigh C loss via microbial respiration, and therefore the potential for net organic matter loss is minimal. No significant treatment differences were seen in the respiratory ratio, or in the ratio of biomass C to total organic C. Increased colonization by mycorrhizal fungi seemed to provide an explanation for higher tissue P levels in the organic trees, and thus was an indicator of increased soil biological function in the organically managed plots. Soil invertebrates did not seem to be sensitive indicators of short-term responses to management changes in the current study, as no significant differences were seen during 1990-1991, the first 2 years of transition to organic management in the organic treatment plots. However, earthworm abundance and biomass increased significantly during 1992 in the organic plots, and seemed to provide an indication of long-term response to changes in weed, pest, and soil fertility management. Pitfall trap arthropods were too variable in abundance and diversity to discern any significant treatment effects with the sampling scheme used, and therefore these parameters were not useful indicators of soil quality changes. √•¬© 1997 Elsevier Science B.V."	Applied Soil Ecology 5  151-167 	USA	"36.910200, -121.756900"	Fruit	Apple	Organic	Farms	Orchards	Producer	Field experiments	N/A	Matched	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported																			Data Reported		Data Reported			
6058	"Yamamoto Y., Takeuchi K., Shinkuma T. "	2014	Is there a price premium for certified wood? Empirical evidence from log auction data in Japan.	"We investigate the price premium on certified wood from sustainable forests, using data from more than 38,000 log transactions in Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan. We found a positive and statistically significant effect of certification. The premium added by certification was 1.4% more than the price of conventional logs. This was well in the lower range of additional willingness to pay found in previous studies that used stated preference techniques. The effect of certification varies by wood species. The premium for cedar is 4.0%, while that for cypress is statistically insignificant. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved."	"Forest Policy and Economics, 38: 168-172. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.forpol.2013.07.002"	Japan 	"36.2048, 138.2529"	Forest sector	Timber	Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)	Companies	Companies	Processor	Other	Auction Log Data	Matched	Data Reported	No Data Reported	Data Reported	No Data Reported										Data Reported														