UID	Source Availability	Reference Type	Citation	Year	Author/Creator	Title	Journal Title/Series Title/Book/Conference	Place Published	Publisher	Thesis - Type of Qualification	Doi	ISSN/ISBN	URL	Volume	Issue	Pages	Abstract/Study Aims	University of Oxford Estate Area(s)	University of Oxford Estate Area(s) Specific	Habitat	Number of Study Sites	Coodinates (DD)	Study Start Date	Study End Date	Study Season(s) (If Applicable)	Biodiversity Measurement Indicator	Biodiversity Measurement (Taxon)	Type of Biodiversity Measurement	Time Series Data Set (2+)	Soil organic carbon
Beck_2022	External	Dataset	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B. (2022). Bird ringing records from Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK during 2020 and 2021. , doi:10.5285/AF4C9B5A-FBA9-4133-B782-2A2CBC927280	2022	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B.	Bird ringing records from Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK during 2020 and 2021					doi:10.5285/AF4C9B5A-FBA9-4133-B782-2A2CBC927280		https://catalogue.ceh.ac.uk/documents/af4c9b5a-fba9-4133-b782-2a2cbc927280				This dataset contains information about the ringing records of mainly great tits, blue tits, marsh tits and coal tits, and a few other bird species. The data were collected in Wytham woods, Oxfordshire, UK during 2020 and 2021, as part of a long-term population monitoring project on the breeding biology and behaviour of birds. During April - June, all unringed breeding pairs were trapped at the nest and fitted with a British Trust for Ornithology (BTO) metal leg ring. Great tits and blue tits were additionally fitted with a plastic leg ring containing a RFID tag (IB Technologies, UK). All nestlings were also fitted with these tags at 2 weeks old. Additional ringing was carried out throughout the autumn and winter across the woodland. Birds were trapped using mistnets; biometrics (mass, wing length, tarsus length, fats score) were recorded for all birds and immigrants to the population were fitted with tags. All birds were released after they were processed. These data were entered into our internal Edward Grey Institute (EGI) Bird data Management Project application (EBMP), where they underwent a number of quality checks. Copyright: This resource is available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Woodland	Not reported	51.767046,-1.328857	2020	2021	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleuss;Poecile palustriss;Periparus ater	Richness	Yes	No
Beck_2022	External	Dataset	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B. (2022). Bird breeding data for Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK, 2020 and 2021. , doi:10.5285/AE6F821A-35A1-4A37-AF4D-CA7CB1C83A10	2022	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B.	Bird breeding data for Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK, 2020 and 2021					doi:10.5285/AE6F821A-35A1-4A37-AF4D-CA7CB1C83A10						This dataset contains information on the following: nest building, identity of breeding pairs, date when the first egg is laid, number of eggs, hatch date and the number and condition of fledglings for great tits, blue tits, marsh tits and coal tits. The data presented were collected in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK during April and June in 2020 and 2021 by Keith McMahon, Sam Croft and Kristina Beck, as part of a long-term nestbox project on the breeding biology of birds. The work was supported by the Natural Environment Research Council (Grant NE/S010335/1), The ecology of behavioural contagion in natural systems. During April - June, all nestboxes were visited weekly to obtain records of nest building, the identity of the breeding pair, the date when the first egg is laid, the number of eggs, hatch date, and the number and condition of fledglings. These data were entered into our internal Edward Grey Institute (EGI) Bird data Management Project application (EBMP), where they underwent a number of quality checks. The data provided here were extracted from EBMP. In csv format for deposit into the EIDC. Copyright: This resource is available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Woodland	Not reported	51.767046,-1.328857	2020	2021	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleuss;Poecile palustriss;Periparus ater	Not Reported	Yes	No
Buesching_2010	Solo (Digital)	Book section	Buesching, C.D., Clarke, J.R., Ellwood, S.A., King, C., Newman, C., Macdonald, D.W. (2010). The Mammals of Wytham Woods. In: Wytham Woods: Oxford's Ecological Laboratory, Savill , P., Perrins, C., Kirby, K., Fisher, N. (Eds.), 173–196. https://doi-org.ezproxy-prd.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/10.1093/acprof:osobl/9780199605187.003.0010	2010	Buesching, C.D., Clarke, J.R., Ellwood, S.A., King, C., Newman, C., Macdonald, D.W.	The Mammals of Wytham Woods	In: Wytham Woods: Oxford'S Ecological Laboratory, Savill , P., Perrins, C., Kirby, K., Fisher, N. (Eds.)	Oxford	Oxford University Press		https://doi-org.ezproxy-prd.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/10.1093/acprof:osobl/9780199605187.003.0010	978-0-19-960518-7 978-0-19-954320-5				173–196	This chapter explores the different field biology studies of mammals living at Wytham Woods. It focuses first on research done on small mammals such as wood mice and voles, and examines their ecology to environmental factors. It emphasizes the 13-year study of Henry Southern concerning the small mammals. It investigates the two mammals' population cycles and looks into D. H. Chitty's hypothesis in the regulation of the size of mammal populations. It discusses the effects of habitat management on mammals and their roles in the ecosystem such as being indicators for agro-pollutants and pesticide residues. It also investigates the ecology of large mammals such as deer, weasels, foxes, badgers, hedgehogs, and squirrels.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1948	1998	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Myodes glareolus	Abundance	Yes	No
Beck_2022	External	Dataset	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B. (2022). Recordings of the discovery of novel food patches in common woodland birds in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK 2021. , doi:10.5285/E250AE89-2E1F-4664-9092-5A8593D50FDF	2022	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B.	Recordings of the discovery of novel food patches in common woodland birds in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK 2021					doi:10.5285/E250AE89-2E1F-4664-9092-5A8593D50FDF						This dataset contains information about the recordings of great tits, blue tits, marsh tits and nuthatches discovering novel food patches in relation to manipulated local population densities (see 1a4dcbb3-c4fb-4bd4-acb3-d03932de9323). Prior to and during the density manipulation experiment, novel feeders were placed at random locations and the discovery of these was recorded using a Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) tag attached to each bird and the information recorded using a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) antenna within the feeder. The experiment took place in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK between January and March 2021, as part of a study on the effects of ecological factors on social structure and information transmission. Data collection was performed by Keith McMahon, Sam Croft and Kristina Beck. The work was supported by the Natural Environment Research Council (Grant NE/S010335/1), The ecology of behavioural contagion in natural systems. Automated bird feeders were used to collect the described data. Each of the feeders had one access hole with a clear flap and an inbuilt Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) antenna within the perch. All birds equipped with a Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) tag that landed on the perch were recorded, and the time and date of visits stored on a secure digital (SD) card. Feeders were visited every two to three days, to refill food, check feeder performance and collect data. For the final dataset, erroneous recordings (e.g. entries with a wrong date or tag number) were removed. Data are provided as comma separated value file for deposit into the EIDC. Copyright: This resource is available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Woodland	Not reported	51.767046,-1.328857	2020	2021	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleuss;Poecile palustriss;Periparus ater	Richness	Yes	No
Beck_2022	External	Dataset	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B. (2022). Local population density of woodland birds from a manipulation experiment in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK 2021. , doi:10.5285/1A4DCBB3-C4FB-4BD4-ACB3-D03932DE9323	2022	Beck, K.B., Firth, J.A., McMahon, K., Croft, S., Cole, E.F., Sheldon, B.	Local population density of woodland birds from a manipulation experiment in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK 2021					doi:10.5285/1A4DCBB3-C4FB-4BD4-ACB3-D03932DE9323						This dataset contains information about local population densities of great tits, blue tits, marsh tits and nuthatches from a manipulation experiment. The time, location and bird species were recorded using a Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) tag attached to each bird and the information recorded using a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) antenna within the feeder. Population density was manipulated by programming automated feeders to only open for a specific set of individuals (creating low- and high-density treatments). Local population densities were recorded using automated bird feeders at six experimental and two control sites prior to and during the manipulation. The experiment took place in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK between January and March 2021, as part of a study on the effects of ecological factors on social structure and information transmission. The work was supported by the Natural Environment Research Council (Grant NE/S010335/1, The ecology of behavioural contagion in natural systems.) Automated bird feeders were used to collect the described data. Each of the feeders had one access hole with a clear flap and an inbuilt Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) antenna within the perch. All birds equipped with a Passive Integrated Transponder (PIT) tag that landed on the perch got recorded, and the time and date of visits stored on a Secure Digital (SD) card. The flap can be programmed to open only for specified PIT tagged individuals. This allowed us to manipulate local densities by specifically restricting access to each feeder. Feeders were visited every two to three days, to refill food, check feeder performance and collect data. For the final dataset, erroneous recordings (e.g. entries with a wrong date or tag number) were removed. Data are provided as comma separated value files for deposit into the EIDC. Copyright: This resource is available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Woodland	Not reported	51.767046,-1.328857	2020	2021	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleuss;Poecile palustriss;Periparus ater	Richness	Yes	No
Falk_2021	External	Report	Falk, S. (2021). The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020. , 	2021	Falk, S.	The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020			Oxford, Wytham University of Oxford								Between 2017 and 2020, 37 full-day surveys of flower-visiting insects at Wytham Woods, west of Oxford, were carried out using a combination of active sampling and (on most days) simultaneous pan trapping. Surveying has covered the period late March to mid-October. • These visits, and few extra visits by the author and Dr Liam Crowley, University of Oxford, have produced records for 679 flower-visiting taxa, mostly representing verified species but also a few aggregate or indeterminate taxa. The list includes records for 114 species of hoverfly and 94 species of bee and 30 species of butterfly (see associated spreadsheet). • For each taxon at each site visit, the author recorded all flower visits, the observed abundance level and the number of individuals caught in pan traps (see associated spreadsheet). • The list includes records for 59 species currently with national rarity or conservation status, though it should be noted that some of these are now known to be more frequent than their status suggests. • The dataset has produced flower-visiting records for about 130 plant species, revealing the popularity of different plant species to pollinators, the sorts of insects that visit a particular plant species, and the period of the year in which they do this. • The data allows direct comparison of an active survey protocol with a pantrapping protocol designed to run simultaneously using single-day visits of about 7 hours duration. It reveals that pan-trapping is less effective at sampling species richness than active surveying by an experienced entomologist, and that pan trapping produces a very different estimate of the abundance of flower-visiting species present, one that frequently differs from what is observed. • However, the data also show that pan-trapping extended the species list a little and revealed the presence and/or abundance of some species that were not observed during active sampling. Pan-trapping proved to be very effective for recording taxa such as sarcophagid flies and pompilid wasps. It was also relatively good at generating data on cooler, breezier days in the spring. • The data allow assessment of the current condition and ongoing management of Wytham Woods. Pollinators could benefit from improvements in the sequence and abundance of spring-blossoming shrubs plus the widening and scalloping of rides to create sunnier woodland edge and more flowery woodland conditions. [Scarce species only are listed in the current evidence base]	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Rough Common;Marley Plantation/Marley Wood;Rough Close	Grassland;Woodland		51.77581898,-1.33601966	2017	2020	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Insects	Andrena bucephala ;Andrena fulvago ;Andrena hattorfiana ;Andrena trimmerana ;Auplopus carbonarius ;Blaesoxipha plumicornis Nationally Scarce ;Bombus humilis ;Bombus ruderatus ;Bombus rupestris ;Cadurciella tritaeniata ;Cheilosia barbata ;Cistogaster globosa ;Ctenophora pectinicornis ;Cyrtophlebia ruricola ;Didineis lunicornis ;Dolichovespula media ;Dolichovespula saxonica ;Epistrophe melanostoma ;Eurychaeta palpalis ;Eustalomyia hilaris ;Fannia gotlandica ;Freraea gagatea ;Gorytes laticinctus ;Hebecnema fumosa ;Lasioglossum malachurum ;Lasioglossum pauxillum ;Lasioglossum puncticolle ;Lasioglossum quadrinotatus ;Linnaemyia comta ;Macronychia polyodon ;Macropis europaea ;Mallota cimbiciformis ;Meligramma euchromum ;Merzomyia westermanni ;Microdynerus europaea ;Mydaea anicula ;Myolepta dubia ;Myopa pellucida ;Nomada ferruginatus ;Nomada fucata ;Nomada lathburiana ;Osmia bicolor ;Parasetigena silvestris ;Pocota personata ;Priocnemis hyalinata ;Sarcophaga albiceps ;Sarcophaga subulata ;Satyrium w-album ;Sphecodes crassus ;Sphecodes niger ;Sphecodes rubicundus ;Subclytia rotundiventris ;Thecla betulae ;Thecocarcelia acutangulata ;Thecophora fulvipes ;Tiphia minuta ;Villa cingulata ;Xylota xanthocnema	Diversity;Richness	No	No
Falk_2021	External	Report	Falk, S. (2021). The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020. , 	2021	Falk, S.	The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020			Oxford, Wytham University of Oxford								Between 2017 and 2020, 37 full-day surveys of flower-visiting insects at Wytham Woods, west of Oxford, were carried out using a combination of active sampling and (on most days) simultaneous pan trapping. Surveying has covered the period late March to mid-October. • These visits, and few extra visits by the author and Dr Liam Crowley, University of Oxford, have produced records for 679 flower-visiting taxa, mostly representing verified species but also a few aggregate or indeterminate taxa. The list includes records for 114 species of hoverfly and 94 species of bee and 30 species of butterfly (see associated spreadsheet). • For each taxon at each site visit, the author recorded all flower visits, the observed abundance level and the number of individuals caught in pan traps (see associated spreadsheet). • The list includes records for 59 species currently with national rarity or conservation status, though it should be noted that some of these are now known to be more frequent than their status suggests. • The dataset has produced flower-visiting records for about 130 plant species, revealing the popularity of different plant species to pollinators, the sorts of insects that visit a particular plant species, and the period of the year in which they do this. • The data allows direct comparison of an active survey protocol with a pantrapping protocol designed to run simultaneously using single-day visits of about 7 hours duration. It reveals that pan-trapping is less effective at sampling species richness than active surveying by an experienced entomologist, and that pan trapping produces a very different estimate of the abundance of flower-visiting species present, one that frequently differs from what is observed. • However, the data also show that pan-trapping extended the species list a little and revealed the presence and/or abundance of some species that were not observed during active sampling. Pan-trapping proved to be very effective for recording taxa such as sarcophagid flies and pompilid wasps. It was also relatively good at generating data on cooler, breezier days in the spring. • The data allow assessment of the current condition and ongoing management of Wytham Woods. Pollinators could benefit from improvements in the sequence and abundance of spring-blossoming shrubs plus the widening and scalloping of rides to create sunnier woodland edge and more flowery woodland conditions. [Scarce species only are listed in the current evidence base]	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Rough Common;Marley Plantation/Marley Wood;Rough Close	Grassland;Woodland		51.77016748,-1.336839512	2017	2020	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Insects	Andrena bucephala ;Andrena fulvago ;Andrena hattorfiana ;Andrena trimmerana ;Auplopus carbonarius ;Blaesoxipha plumicornis Nationally Scarce ;Bombus humilis ;Bombus ruderatus ;Bombus rupestris ;Cadurciella tritaeniata ;Cheilosia barbata ;Cistogaster globosa ;Ctenophora pectinicornis ;Cyrtophlebia ruricola ;Didineis lunicornis ;Dolichovespula media ;Dolichovespula saxonica ;Epistrophe melanostoma ;Eurychaeta palpalis ;Eustalomyia hilaris ;Fannia gotlandica ;Freraea gagatea ;Gorytes laticinctus ;Hebecnema fumosa ;Lasioglossum malachurum ;Lasioglossum pauxillum ;Lasioglossum puncticolle ;Lasioglossum quadrinotatus ;Linnaemyia comta ;Macronychia polyodon ;Macropis europaea ;Mallota cimbiciformis ;Meligramma euchromum ;Merzomyia westermanni ;Microdynerus europaea ;Mydaea anicula ;Myolepta dubia ;Myopa pellucida ;Nomada ferruginatus ;Nomada fucata ;Nomada lathburiana ;Osmia bicolor ;Parasetigena silvestris ;Pocota personata ;Priocnemis hyalinata ;Sarcophaga albiceps ;Sarcophaga subulata ;Satyrium w-album ;Sphecodes crassus ;Sphecodes niger ;Sphecodes rubicundus ;Subclytia rotundiventris ;Thecla betulae ;Thecocarcelia acutangulata ;Thecophora fulvipes ;Tiphia minuta ;Villa cingulata ;Xylota xanthocnema	Diversity;Richness	No	No
Falk_2021	External	Report	Falk, S. (2021). The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020. , 	2021	Falk, S.	The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020			Oxford, Wytham University of Oxford								Between 2017 and 2020, 37 full-day surveys of flower-visiting insects at Wytham Woods, west of Oxford, were carried out using a combination of active sampling and (on most days) simultaneous pan trapping. Surveying has covered the period late March to mid-October. • These visits, and few extra visits by the author and Dr Liam Crowley, University of Oxford, have produced records for 679 flower-visiting taxa, mostly representing verified species but also a few aggregate or indeterminate taxa. The list includes records for 114 species of hoverfly and 94 species of bee and 30 species of butterfly (see associated spreadsheet). • For each taxon at each site visit, the author recorded all flower visits, the observed abundance level and the number of individuals caught in pan traps (see associated spreadsheet). • The list includes records for 59 species currently with national rarity or conservation status, though it should be noted that some of these are now known to be more frequent than their status suggests. • The dataset has produced flower-visiting records for about 130 plant species, revealing the popularity of different plant species to pollinators, the sorts of insects that visit a particular plant species, and the period of the year in which they do this. • The data allows direct comparison of an active survey protocol with a pantrapping protocol designed to run simultaneously using single-day visits of about 7 hours duration. It reveals that pan-trapping is less effective at sampling species richness than active surveying by an experienced entomologist, and that pan trapping produces a very different estimate of the abundance of flower-visiting species present, one that frequently differs from what is observed. • However, the data also show that pan-trapping extended the species list a little and revealed the presence and/or abundance of some species that were not observed during active sampling. Pan-trapping proved to be very effective for recording taxa such as sarcophagid flies and pompilid wasps. It was also relatively good at generating data on cooler, breezier days in the spring. • The data allow assessment of the current condition and ongoing management of Wytham Woods. Pollinators could benefit from improvements in the sequence and abundance of spring-blossoming shrubs plus the widening and scalloping of rides to create sunnier woodland edge and more flowery woodland conditions. [Scarce species only are listed in the current evidence base]	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Rough Common;Marley Plantation/Marley Wood;Rough Close	Grassland;Woodland		51.76190392,-1.3003382	2017	2020	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Insects	Andrena bucephala ;Andrena fulvago ;Andrena hattorfiana ;Andrena trimmerana ;Auplopus carbonarius ;Blaesoxipha plumicornis Nationally Scarce ;Bombus humilis ;Bombus ruderatus ;Bombus rupestris ;Cadurciella tritaeniata ;Cheilosia barbata ;Cistogaster globosa ;Ctenophora pectinicornis ;Cyrtophlebia ruricola ;Didineis lunicornis ;Dolichovespula media ;Dolichovespula saxonica ;Epistrophe melanostoma ;Eurychaeta palpalis ;Eustalomyia hilaris ;Fannia gotlandica ;Freraea gagatea ;Gorytes laticinctus ;Hebecnema fumosa ;Lasioglossum malachurum ;Lasioglossum pauxillum ;Lasioglossum puncticolle ;Lasioglossum quadrinotatus ;Linnaemyia comta ;Macronychia polyodon ;Macropis europaea ;Mallota cimbiciformis ;Meligramma euchromum ;Merzomyia westermanni ;Microdynerus europaea ;Mydaea anicula ;Myolepta dubia ;Myopa pellucida ;Nomada ferruginatus ;Nomada fucata ;Nomada lathburiana ;Osmia bicolor ;Parasetigena silvestris ;Pocota personata ;Priocnemis hyalinata ;Sarcophaga albiceps ;Sarcophaga subulata ;Satyrium w-album ;Sphecodes crassus ;Sphecodes niger ;Sphecodes rubicundus ;Subclytia rotundiventris ;Thecla betulae ;Thecocarcelia acutangulata ;Thecophora fulvipes ;Tiphia minuta ;Villa cingulata ;Xylota xanthocnema	Diversity;Richness	No	No
Falk_2021	External	Report	Falk, S. (2021). The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020. , 	2021	Falk, S.	The Pollinators of Wytham Woods 2017-2020			Oxford, Wytham University of Oxford								Between 2017 and 2020, 37 full-day surveys of flower-visiting insects at Wytham Woods, west of Oxford, were carried out using a combination of active sampling and (on most days) simultaneous pan trapping. Surveying has covered the period late March to mid-October. • These visits, and few extra visits by the author and Dr Liam Crowley, University of Oxford, have produced records for 679 flower-visiting taxa, mostly representing verified species but also a few aggregate or indeterminate taxa. The list includes records for 114 species of hoverfly and 94 species of bee and 30 species of butterfly (see associated spreadsheet). • For each taxon at each site visit, the author recorded all flower visits, the observed abundance level and the number of individuals caught in pan traps (see associated spreadsheet). • The list includes records for 59 species currently with national rarity or conservation status, though it should be noted that some of these are now known to be more frequent than their status suggests. • The dataset has produced flower-visiting records for about 130 plant species, revealing the popularity of different plant species to pollinators, the sorts of insects that visit a particular plant species, and the period of the year in which they do this. • The data allows direct comparison of an active survey protocol with a pantrapping protocol designed to run simultaneously using single-day visits of about 7 hours duration. It reveals that pan-trapping is less effective at sampling species richness than active surveying by an experienced entomologist, and that pan trapping produces a very different estimate of the abundance of flower-visiting species present, one that frequently differs from what is observed. • However, the data also show that pan-trapping extended the species list a little and revealed the presence and/or abundance of some species that were not observed during active sampling. Pan-trapping proved to be very effective for recording taxa such as sarcophagid flies and pompilid wasps. It was also relatively good at generating data on cooler, breezier days in the spring. • The data allow assessment of the current condition and ongoing management of Wytham Woods. Pollinators could benefit from improvements in the sequence and abundance of spring-blossoming shrubs plus the widening and scalloping of rides to create sunnier woodland edge and more flowery woodland conditions. [Scarce species only are listed in the current evidence base]	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Rough Common;Marley Plantation/Marley Wood;Rough Close	Grassland;Woodland		51.76928597,-1.338556526	2017	2020	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Insects	Andrena bucephala ;Andrena fulvago ;Andrena hattorfiana ;Andrena trimmerana ;Auplopus carbonarius ;Blaesoxipha plumicornis Nationally Scarce ;Bombus humilis ;Bombus ruderatus ;Bombus rupestris ;Cadurciella tritaeniata ;Cheilosia barbata ;Cistogaster globosa ;Ctenophora pectinicornis ;Cyrtophlebia ruricola ;Didineis lunicornis ;Dolichovespula media ;Dolichovespula saxonica ;Epistrophe melanostoma ;Eurychaeta palpalis ;Eustalomyia hilaris ;Fannia gotlandica ;Freraea gagatea ;Gorytes laticinctus ;Hebecnema fumosa ;Lasioglossum malachurum ;Lasioglossum pauxillum ;Lasioglossum puncticolle ;Lasioglossum quadrinotatus ;Linnaemyia comta ;Macronychia polyodon ;Macropis europaea ;Mallota cimbiciformis ;Meligramma euchromum ;Merzomyia westermanni ;Microdynerus europaea ;Mydaea anicula ;Myolepta dubia ;Myopa pellucida ;Nomada ferruginatus ;Nomada fucata ;Nomada lathburiana ;Osmia bicolor ;Parasetigena silvestris ;Pocota personata ;Priocnemis hyalinata ;Sarcophaga albiceps ;Sarcophaga subulata ;Satyrium w-album ;Sphecodes crassus ;Sphecodes niger ;Sphecodes rubicundus ;Subclytia rotundiventris ;Thecla betulae ;Thecocarcelia acutangulata ;Thecophora fulvipes ;Tiphia minuta ;Villa cingulata ;Xylota xanthocnema	Diversity;Richness	No	No
Kirby_2010	Solo (Digital)	Book section	Kirby, K.J., Morecroft, M.D. (2010). The flowers of the forest. In: Wytham Woods: Oxford's Ecological Laboratory, Savill , P., Perrins, C., Kirby, K., Fisher, N. (Eds.), 75-90. https://doi-org.ezproxy-prd.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/10.1093/acprof:osobl/9780199605187.003.0006	2010	Kirby, K.J., Morecroft, M.D.	The flowers of the forest	In: Wytham Woods: Oxford'S Ecological Laboratory, Savill , P., Perrins, C., Kirby, K., Fisher, N. (Eds.)	Oxford	Oxford University Press		https://doi-org.ezproxy-prd.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/10.1093/acprof:osobl/9780199605187.003.0006	978-0-19-960518-7 978-0-19-954320-5				75-90	This chapter studies the patterns and behaviours of flowers thriving in the woodlands. It describes the flora distribution and vegetation patterns in the woodlands, and looks into recent changes in the flora as a result of the changing environment and other external factors. It presents information gathered from various studies of the common flower types, and discusses some of the changes such as the overall decline in species richness and the effects of increased nitrogen deposition. It also highlights the vital role of shade in species richness and the relationship of deer grazing and species richness.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1999	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Brachypodium sylvaticum; Carex pendula; Carex sylvatica; Chamaerion angustifolium; Circaea lutetiana; Deschampsia cespitosa; Epilobium montanum; Galium aparine; Glechoma hederacea; Hyacinthoides non-scripta; Heracleum sphondylium; Mercurialis perennis; Poa trivialis; Paqu Pteridium aquilinum; Rubus fruticosus; Rumex spp; Urtica dioica	Abundance	Yes	No
Macdonald_2015a	Solo (Digital)	Book	Macdonald, D.W., Feber, R.E.(Eds) (2015). Wildlife Conservation on Farmland. Volume 1: Managing for nature on lowland farms. , https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198745488.001.0001	2015	Macdonald, D.W., Feber, R.E.(Eds)	Wildlife Conservation on Farmland. Volume 1: Managing for nature on lowland farms		Oxford	Oxford University Press, USA		https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198745488.001.0001	9780191807558					The book focuses on understanding nature (and all that affects her) revealing how — for plants, invertebrates, birds, and mammals — agricultural systems and wildlife interact, with the purpose of fortifying the evidence base for managing outcomes, while Volume 2 focuses on understanding the very same Nature with the purpose of untangling and mitigating the tensions between people and wildlife in the countryside. Both books focus through a particular set of eyes, those of the broadly based team of Oxford University’s Wildlife Conservation Research Unit — the WildCRU — and the colleagues and collaborators that comprise its extended family. [An individual chapters included in the current evidence base is: Helen Smith, Ruth E. Feber, David W. Macdonald. From weed reservoir to wildlife resource—redefining arable field margins, which disusses two field margin experiments assessing spcies richness of plants and butterflies at the University Farm at Wytham from 1987]	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable;Farmland;Grassland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1989	Summer	Insects		Richness	Yes	No
Macdonald_2015a	Solo (Digital)	Book	Macdonald, D.W., Feber, R.E.(Eds) (2015). Wildlife Conservation on Farmland. Volume 1: Managing for nature on lowland farms. , https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198745488.001.0001	2015	Macdonald, D.W., Feber, R.E.(Eds)	Wildlife Conservation on Farmland. Volume 1: Managing for nature on lowland farms		Oxford	Oxford University Press, USA		https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198745488.001.0001	9780191807558					The book focuses on understanding nature (and all that affects her) revealing how — for plants, invertebrates, birds, and mammals — agricultural systems and wildlife interact, with the purpose of fortifying the evidence base for managing outcomes, while Volume 2 focuses on understanding the very same Nature with the purpose of untangling and mitigating the tensions between people and wildlife in the countryside. Both books focus through a particular set of eyes, those of the broadly based team of Oxford University’s Wildlife Conservation Research Unit — the WildCRU — and the colleagues and collaborators that comprise its extended family. [An individual chapters included in the current evidence base is: Helen Smith, Ruth E. Feber, David W. Macdonald. From weed reservoir to wildlife resource—redefining arable field margins, which disusses two field margin experiments assessing spcies richness of plants and butterflies at the University Farm at Wytham from 1987]	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable;Farmland;Grassland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1989	Summer	Vascular plants		Richness	Yes	No
Macdonald_2015b	Solo (Digital)	Book Section	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C., Buesching, C.D. (2015). Badgers in the rural landscape-conservation paragon or farmland pariah? Lessons from the Wytham Badger Project. Wildlife Conservation on Farmland: Volume 2: Conflict in the countryside. Macdonald, D.W., Feber, F.E. (Eds), Oxford University Press, 	2015	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C., Buesching, C.D.	Badgers in the rural landscape-conservation paragon or farmland pariah? Lessons from the Wytham Badger Project	Wildlife Conservation On Farmland: Volume 2: Conflict In The Countryside. Macdonald, D.W., Feber, F.E. (Eds), Oxford University Press					978-0-19-874550-1					Despite their emblematic status, assumed knowledge on the socio-ecology of badgers, even that based on older research, proves increasingly incongruous; providing an inadequate basis to decide management policy. Starting from 1987 at the Wytham Woods research site, the 9500 + captures of 1548 individuals, for which detailed data has been gathered, have afforded unique insights into badger society. This chapter demonstrates that they do not in fact live in discrete groups, but rather trespass into supposed neighbouring group ranges and visit other group setts. Here they mate, with almost 50% of cubs fathered by extra-group males, although with scant evidence of any offspring advantages. Only limited social interactions can be observed, typically on a purely reciprocal basis, and communication mediated primarily by scent secretion and olfaction. Population dynamics also prove intriguing, interacting strongly with weather conditions, in both absolute terms and with an adverse effect of unpredictable weather variability. Dry summers exacerbate the effect of endo-parasitic infections, leading to cub mortality; and while mild winters favour survival overall, greater ranging activity is associated with more traffic fatalities. Ultimately, the chapter exposes how it is the dispersion of key resources, and in particular earthworms, which best explains badger socio-spatial geometries. This intersects with agricultural practice and land management, where the mosaic of worm-rich fields, peppered with wooded copses, that typify the British countryside have created conditions where this otherwise more solitary mustelid thrives, and is consequently forced into high-density living. The result is an awkward compromise, where their socio-ecology lags their actual ecological circumstances. [Changes in population desnity from 1987 to 2010 are summarised. Some of these data are reported elsewhere in this evidence base] 	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1987	2010	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Population Density	Yes	No
Macdonald_2015	Solo (Digital)	Book	Macdonald, D.W., Feber, R.E.(Eds) (2015). Wildlife Conservation on Farmland: Volume 2: Conflict in the countryside.. , https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198745501.001.0001	2015	Macdonald, D.W., Feber, R.E.(Eds)	Wildlife Conservation on Farmland: Volume 2: Conflict in the countryside.		Oxford	Oxford University Press		https://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780198745501.001.0001	9780191821776	https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=HQoWCgAAQBAJ&pgis=1				Using more than 30 years research from the author team at the Wildlife Conservation Research Unit (WildCRU), this volume reveals how agricultural systems and wildlife interact, presenting examples from scales varying from landscape to microcosm, from populations to individuals, covering plants, invertebrates, birds, and mammals. It demonstrates the essential ecosystem services provided by agricultural land, and discusses the implications of agricultural development for natural habitats and biodiversity. [The book includes a chapter on badgers in Wytham woods, which is recorded separately]	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1987	2010	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_2010	Solo (Print)	Book section	Perrins, C.M., Gosler, A.G. (2010). Birds. In: Wytham Woods: Oxford's Ecological Laboratory, Savill , P., Perrins, C., Kirby, K., Fisher, N. (Eds.), 145–172. https://doi-org.ezproxy-prd.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/10.1093/acprof:osobl/9780199605187.003.0009	2010	Perrins, C.M., Gosler, A.G.	Birds	In: Wytham Woods: Oxford'S Ecological Laboratory, Savill , P., Perrins, C., Kirby, K., Fisher, N. (Eds.)	Oxford	Oxford University Press		https://doi-org.ezproxy-prd.bodleian.ox.ac.uk/10.1093/acprof:osobl/9780199605187.003.0009	978-0-19-960518-7 978-0-19-954320-5				145–172	This chapter reviews the various long-term population studies of birds at Wytham Woods. It looks into studies that address significant issues in field biology, including the evolution and ecology of reproductive parameters such as the timing of breeding in relation to food availability or the number of eggs that a female lays. It enumerates some of the bird species discovered in Wytham, and emphasizes on the tit studies by David Lambert Lack and H. N. Kluijver. It specifically analyses their research on the great and blue tit, and explores their physiology, populations and methods of survival, and their breeding season and patterns.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1945	2010	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Accipiter nisus	Abundance	Yes	No
Kirby_2022	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kirby, K.J., Bazely, D.R., Goldberg, E.A., Hall, J.E., Isted, R., Perry, S.C., Thomas, R.C. (2022). Five decades of ground flora changes in a temperate forest: the good, the bad and the ambiguous in biodiversity terms. Forest Ecology and Management, 505(doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2021.119896	2022	Kirby, K.J., Bazely, D.R., Goldberg, E.A., Hall, J.E., Isted, R., Perry, S.C., Thomas, R.C.	Five decades of ground flora changes in a temperate forest: the good, the bad and the ambiguous in biodiversity terms	Forest Ecology and Management				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.foreco.2021.119896	0378-1127	https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378112721009877	505			We explore how the ground flora of a temperate woodland (Wytham Woods, southern England) changed in terms of species-richness, cover and biomass over five decades; what the drivers of change were; and possible future change as a consequence of the decline in Fraxinus excelsior as a canopy dominant. Vascular plants were recorded from 164 permanent, 10x10 m plots, distributed as a 141 m grid, in 1974, 1991, 1999, 2012, and 2018. Species presence and frequency/abundance in each plot were estimated and used to model biomass changes. Changes in species-richness, vegetation composition and structure were analysed. Stands opened out by thinning or which became denser through tree growth gained or lost species respectively, particularly non-woodland species. Deer pressure favoured the spread of Brachypodium sylvaticum and reduced Rubus fruticosus. No obvious impacts of climate change, eutrophication or of invasive species were detected in the plot records although other signs suggest these are starting to affect the flora. Just 12 out of 235 species contributed 47% of all species occurrences, 82% of the vegetation cover and 87% of the modelled biomass. We conclude that the ground flora is highly variable over decadal timescales, but the patterns of change observed differ according to the measures used (species richness, cover, biomass, etc). Site level drivers in the short-term swamped effects of slower acting regional/global drivers. Legacy effects were seen in the greater richness of specialists in the older woodland. While some impacts can be mitigated by management, others are largely beyond control at the site level. [Contribution of the twelve commonest species in terms of number of plot occurrences, mean % Cover per plot, mean biomass per plot across all five recordings are included in the current evidence base].	Wytham Estate	Great Wood	Woodland	164	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1974	2018	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Rubus fruticosus ;Poa trivialis ;Mercurialis perennis;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Urtica dioica ;Deschampsia cespitosa;Circaea lutetiana ;Glechoma hederacea;Hyacinthoides non-scripta;Geum urbanum ;Galium aparine ;Pteridium aquilinum	Community Composition;Richness	Yes	No
Paviour-Smith_1993	Oxford University (Other)	Conference Paper	Paviour-Smith, K., Elbourn, C.A. (1993). A quantitative study of the fauna of small dead and dying wood in living trees in Wytham Woods, near Oxford. Dead wood matters: the ecology and conservation of saproxylic invertebrates in Britain (Kirby, K.J., Drake, C.M. Eds), 33-57. 	1993	Paviour-Smith, K., Elbourn, C.A.	A quantitative study of the fauna of small dead and dying wood in living trees in Wytham Woods, near Oxford	Dead Wood Matters: The Ecology and Conservation of Saproxylic Invertebrates In Britain (Kirby, K.J., Drake, C.M. Eds)	Peterborough	English Nature							33-57	Records the list of invertebrate species found in a study of aerial dead wood on oak, ash, sycamore and hawthorn in partly-ancient woodland with frequency and abundance of each species.	Wytham Estate	Holly Hill Copse	Woodland		51.77155523,-1.340824969	1968	1968	Not Reported	Insects		Abundance	Yes	No
Kirby_2016	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Kirby, K. (2016). The Kirby Archive of British woodland studies. , 	2016	Kirby, K.	The Kirby Archive of British woodland studies		Oxford	University of Oxford				https://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:948a1302-5023-4216-b5a4-3e815dfe95ed				The Kirby Archive comprises studies of British woodland change derived from a career as woodland ecologist with first the Nature Conservancy Council (joined 1979), its successor bodies (English Nature, Natural England). This work continued after retirement (2012), under the guise of visiting researcher in the Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford. While key results have been published as formal papers, these files provide fuller accounts of some of the studies involved and the original data. The archive includes results from long-term studies established in the 1970s by Colyear Dawkins of the Commonwealth Forestry Institute in Oxford at Wytham Woods and the Warburg Reserve (Bix Bottom); resurveys of forestry plantations first examined in the 1980s and resurveyed in the 2010s; and studies of managed and unmanaged stands at a variety of other sites. Also included are additional files relating to woodland survey, monitoring and classification techniques that provide some context for the methods used. The reports have been prepared in Microsoft Word, while the data are presented in Word, Excel CSV, and PDF formats. I would like to acknowledge the inspiration of Colyear Dawkins of the Commonwealth Forestry Institute and George Peterken of the Nature Conservancy Council, who set me along this road of study; the assistance of innumerable companions, as we slogged through the brambles; and the willingness of woodland owners to allow us to work in their woods. Studies of long-term change in British woodland in response to various local and national drivers of change: forest growth, management, disease, eutrophication. An additional round of analysis from 2018 was added in January 2021 and can be found in the zip file 'Wytham 2018 data'.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1973	2022	Summer	Vascular plants	Angelica sylvestris;Arum maculatum;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex sylvatica;Circaea lutetiana;Cirsium palustre;Clematis vitalba;Deschampsia cespitosa;Dryopteris dilatata;Dryopteris filix-mas;Hyacinthoides non-scripta;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Lamiastrum galeobdolon;Galium aparine;Geum urbanum;Glechoma hederacea;Hypericum hirsutum;Juncus effusus;Mercurialis perennis;Poa trivialis;Ranunculus ficaria;Rosa canina;Rubus fruticosus;Rumex sanguineus;Scrophularia nodosa;Taraxacum officinale agg.;Urtica dioica;Viola riviniana;Ajuga reptans;Bromopsis ramosa;Carex acutiformis;Hedera helix;Lonicera periclymenum;Ranunculus repens;Tamus communis;Anemone nemorosa;Geranium robertianum;Ribes rubrum;Veronica chamaedrys;Veronica montana;Epipactis purpurata;Chamerion angustifolium;Epilobium montanum;Humulus lupulus;Poa pratensis;Prunella vulgaris;Pteridium aquilinum;Rubus caesius;Solanum dulcamara;Sonchus oleraceus;Epilobium tetragonum;Agrostis stolonifera;Arctium minus;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Agrostis capillaris;Bromopsis erecta;Cerastium fontanum;Cirsium arvense;Cirsium vulgare;Crepis capillaris;Dactylis glomerata;Holcus lanatus;Holcus mollis;Juncus inflexus;Lolium perenne;Lycopus europaeus;Medicago lupulina;Myosotis arvensis;Potentilla reptans;Senecio jacobaea;Silene dioica;Stachys sylvatica;Torilis japonica;Trifolium pratense;Trifolium repens;Veronica serpyllifolia;Leucanthemum vulgare;Arrhenatherum elatius;Cardamine flexuosa;Carex otrubae;Cynosurus cristatus;Hypericum tetrapterum;Lysimachia nemorum;Mentha aquatica;Mentha arvensis;Plantago major;Poa annua;Epilobium parviflorum;Milium effusum;Symphytum officinale;Rubus idaeus;Senecio vulgaris;Campanula trachelium;Carex flacca;Epilobium hirsutum;Heracleum sphondylium;Lysimachia nummularia;Primula vulgaris;Potentilla sterilis;Ranunculus auricomus;Stellaria media;Equisetum telmateia;Oxalis acetosella;Luzula pilosa;Allium ursinum;Bryonia dioica;Hieracium spp.;Paris quadrifolia;Cardamine pratensis;Fragaria vesca;Listera ovata;Orchid spp.;Platanthera chlorantha;Dryopteris affinis;Agrostis gigantea;Athyrium filix-femina;Conopodium majus;Alliaria petiolata;Moehringia trinervia;Galium odoratum;Vicia sepium;Aegopodium podagraria;Arctium lappa;Anthoxanthum odoratum;Brachypodium pinnatum;Calystegia sepium;Clinopodium vulgare;Festuca rubra;Cruciata laevipes;Galium verum;Lathyrus pratensis;Lotus corniculatus;Lotus pedunculatus;Pastinaca sativa;Phleum pratense;Pimpinella major;Pulicaria dysenterica;Hordeum secalinum;Dactylorhiza fuchsii;Galium mollugo;Scrophularia auriculata;Viola hirta;Elytrigia repens;Lapsana communis;Centaurium erythraea;Eupatorium cannabinum;Potentilla anserina;Tussilago farfara;Carex riparia;Ophioglossum vulgatum;Equisetum arvense;Festuca arundinacea;Carex hirta;Hypericum maculatum;Ulex europaeus;Anthriscus sylvestris;Cirsium eriophorum;Convolvulus arvensis;Geranium dissectum;Geranium molle;Helianthemum nummularium;Helictotrichon pubescens;Hypericum perforatum;Inula conyzae;Lithospermum officinale;Polygala vulgaris;Origanum vulgare;Arenaria serpyllifolia;Nracissus hybrid;Daucus carota;Achillea millefolium;Myosotis ramosissima;Ranunculus acris;Epipactis helleborine;Sanicula europaea;Galium palustre;Stellaria graminea;Agrimonia eupatoria;Lythrum salicaria;Succisa pratensis;Trisetum flavescens;Stachys officinalis;Rumex obtusifolius;Nectaroscordium siculum;Sanguisorba minor;Calamagrostis epigejos;Glyceria spp.;Stellaria uliginosa;Medicago sativa;Bellis perennis;Veronica hederifolia;Hypericum pulchrum;Veronica arvensis;Bromus hordeaceus;Leontodon hispidus;Veronica officinalis;Verbascum thapsus;Polygonum aviculare;Anisantha sterilis;Narcissus hybrid;Phyllitis scolopendrium;Polystichum setiferum;Festuca ovina;Festuca pratensis;Knautia arvensis;Rumex acetosa;Vicia cracca;Linum catharticum;Odontites vernus;Carex panicea;Dipsacus fullonum;Senecio sylvaticus;Melica uniflora;Veronica beccabunga;Impatiens parviflora;Glyceria fluitans;Stellaria holostea;Vicia tenuifolia;Centaurea nigra;Astragalus glycyphyllos;Ribes uva-crispa;Glyceria spp;Vicia sativa;Alopecurus pratensis;Galium uliginosum;Viola odorata;Daphne laureola;Hieracium spp;Anagallis arvensis;Ononis repens;Rumex crispus;Blechnum spicant;Hypochaeris radicata;Lysimachia vulgaris	Community Composition;Richness	Yes	No
ANON_1953	Solo (Print)	Book	University of Oxford (1977). Guide to the trees and shrubs in the University Parks, Oxford. , 55 pp.. 	1977	University of Oxford	Guide to the trees and shrubs in the University Parks, Oxford		Oxford	Oxford University Press							55 pp.	A list of the trees and shrubs found in the Parks in 1953 together with diagrams showing their positions.	University Parks	University Parks	Parks and Gardens	1	51.761619,-1.253489	1953	1953	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
ANON_1977	Solo (Print)	Book	University of Oxford (1977). Guide to the trees and shrubs in the University Parks Oxford. Revised Edition. , 92 pp.. 	1977	University of Oxford	Guide to the trees and shrubs in the University Parks Oxford. Revised Edition		Oxford	Curators of the University Parks							92 pp.	A list of the trees and shrubs found in the Parks in 1975, with amendments necessitated by Dutch elm disease, the 1976 gale and drought, together with diagrams showing their positions.	University Parks	University Parks	Parks and Gardens	1	51.761619,-1.253489	1977	1977	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
ANON_2023a	Oxford University (Other)	Website	University of Oxford (2023). Trees of the Parks. , 	2023	University of Oxford	Trees of the Parks		Oxford	Curators of the University Parks								A searchable database, arranged in 16 named areas of the University Parks, of ca. individual 1600 trees, each listed with botanical and common names and with precise location details. 	University Parks	University Parks	Parks and Gardens	1	51.761619,-1.253489	1977	2023	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Abies grandis;Abies nordmanniana;Abies numidica;Abies sp;Acer campestre;Acer cappadocicum;Acer davidii;Acer hyrcanum;Acer monspessulanum;Acer negundo;Acer opalus;Acer platanoides;Acer platanoides 'Crimson King';Acer platanoides 'Erectum';Acer pseudoplatanus;Acer pseudoplatanus 'Variegatum';Acer pseudoplataus;Acer rubrum;Acer saccharinum;Acer saccharum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aesculus hippocastanum 'Baumannii';Aesculus x carnea;Ailanthus altissima;Alnus cordata;Alnus glutinosa;Alnus glutinosa 'Laciniata';Alnus incana;Alnus rubra;Amelanchier canadensis;Betula albo-sinensis var septentrionalis;Betula ermanii;Betula lenta;Betula maximowicziana;Betula papyrifera;Betula pendula;Betula populifolia;Betula populifolia 'Purpurea';Betula pubescens;Betula sp.;Betula utilis;Betula x aurata;Calocedrus decurrens;Carpinus betulus;Carpinus betulus 'Fastigiata';Carya tomentosa;Castanea sativa;Catalpa bignonioides;Catalpa ovata;Catalpa speciosa;Catalpa x erubescens 'Purpurea';Cedrus atlantica;Cedrus atlantica 'Glauca';Cedrus deodara;Cedrus libani;Cercidiphyllum japonicum;Chamaecyparis lawsoniana;Chamaecyparis lawsoniana 'Alumii';Chamaecyparis lawsoniana 'Lutea';Chamaecyparis lawsoniana 'Patula';Chamaecyparis sp;Cladrastis lutea;Cornus mas;Corylus avellana;Corylus colurna;Cotinus obovatus;Crataegus arkansana;Crataegus arnoldiana;Crataegus azarolus;Crataegus canbyi;Crataegus champlainensis;Crataegus coccinioides;Crataegus crus-galli;Crataegus crus-galli var arbutifolia;Crataegus crus-galli var oblongata;Crataegus crus-galli var pyracanthifolia;Crataegus douglasii;Crataegus ellwangeriana;Crataegus laciniata;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus laevigata 'Paul's Scarlet';Crataegus laevigata 'Plena';Crataegus laevigata 'Punicea';Crataegus laevigata 'Rosea Flore Pleno';Crataegus laevigata 'Rosea';Crataegus macrantha;Crataegus mollis;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus monogyna 'Biflora';Crataegus monogyna 'Pteridifolia';Crataegus monogyna 'Rosea';Crataegus monogyna 'Stricta';Crataegus monogyna eriocarpa;Crataegus oxycantha;Crataegus pedicellata;Crataegus persimilis 'Prunifolia';Crataegus phaenopyrum;Crataegus punctata;Crataegus schraderiana;Crataegus sinaica;Crataegus sorbifolia;Crataegus sp;Crataegus submollis;Crataegus succulenta var macrantha;Crataegus wattiana;Crataegus x dippeliana;Crataegus x lavallei;Crataegus x mordenensis 'Toba';Cupressus glabra;Eucalyptus gunnii;Fagus sylvatica;Fagus sylvatica 'Atropurpurea';Fagus sylvatica 'Pendula';Fagus sylvatica 'Purpurea';Fagus sylvatica 'Rotundifolia';Fagus sylvatica var heterophylla;Fagus sylvatica var heterophylla 'Laciniata';Fraxinus americana;Fraxinus angustifolia;Fraxinus angustifolia 'Raywood';Fraxinus excelsior;Fraxinus latifolia;Fraxinus ornus;Fraxinus sp;Ginkgo biloba;Gleditsia triacanthos (inermis);Ilex aquifolium;Ilex aquifolium 'Argenteomarginata P.M.' Pectinata;Ilex aquifolium 'Bacciflava';Ilex aquifolium 'Crispa';Ilex aquifolium 'Ferox Argentea';Ilex aquifolium 'Golden Queen';Ilex aquifolium 'Handsworthensis';Ilex aquifolium 'Heterophylla';Ilex sp;Ilex x altaclerensis;Ilex x altaclerensis 'Balearica';Ilex x altaclerensis 'Camelliifolia Variegata';Juglans regia;Juniperus sp;Koelreuteria paniculata;Laburnum anagyroides;Larix decidua;Liquidambar styraciflua;Liriodendron tulipifera;Magnolia denudata;Magnolia x soulangeana;Malus 'John Downie';Malus 'Profusion';Malus 'Red Sentinel';Malus domestica;Malus floribunda;Malus hupehensis;Malus sp;Malus tschonoskii;Malus x eleyi;Metasequoia glyptostroboides;Morus alba;Morus nigra;Nothofagus obliqua;Olea europaea;Ostrya carpinifolia;Picea brachytyla;Picea omorika;Picea pungens 'Glauca';Pinus halepensis;Pinus monticola;Pinus nigra;Pinus nigra subsp laricio;Pinus pinea;Pinus ponderosa;Pinus pyramidalis;Pinus sp;Pinus sylvestris;Pinus x holfordiana;Platanus orientalis;Platanus x hispanica;Populus alba;Populus balsamifera;Populus nigra;Populus nigra var italica;Populus sp;Populus tremula;Populus trichocarpa;Populus x canadensis 'Eugenei';Populus x canadensis 'Regenerata';Populus x canadensis 'Serotina';Populus x candicans 'Aurora';Populus x canescens;Prunus 'Pandora';Prunus 'Shimidsu Sakura';Prunus 'Spire';Prunus avium;Prunus avium 'Plena';Prunus cerasifera 'Pissardii';Prunus dulcis;Prunus padus 'Watereri';Prunus sargentii;Prunus serrulata;Prunus speciosa;Prunus x yedoensis;Pseudotsuga menziesii;Ptelea trifoliata;Pterocarya fraxinifolia;Pterocarya x rehderiana;Pyrus calleryana;Quercus canariensis;Quercus cerris;Quercus ilex;Quercus macrolepis;Quercus palustris;Quercus petraea;Quercus robur;Quercus robur 'Fastigiata';Quercus rubra;Quercus sp;Quercus suber;Quercus x lucombeana;Rhamnus cathartica;Erithacus rubeculaia pseudoacacia;Erithacus rubeculaia pseudoacacia 'Frisia';Salix alba;Salix alba subsp caerulea;Salix alba subsp. caerulea;Salix babylonica;Salix daphnoides;Salix fragilis;Salix x pendulina 'Blanda';Sequoia sempervirens;Sequoiadendron giganteum;Sophora japonica;Sorbus aria 'Lutescens';Sorbus aucuparia;Sorbus aucuparia 'Fastigiata';Sorbus esserteauana;Sorbus hupehensis;Sorbus intermedia;Sorbus latifolia;Sorbus pohuashanensis;Sorbus sp;Sorbus thibetica 'John Mitchell';Sorbus x thuringiaca;Taxodium distichum;Taxus baccata;Thuja orientalis;Thuja plicata;Tilia cordata;Tilia mongolica;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia tomentosa;Tilia x europaea;Tilia x europaea;Ulmus carpinifolia var sarniensis;Ulmus glabra 'Nana';X Cupressocyparis leylandii;X Cupressocyparis leylandii 'Haggerston Grey';X Cupressocyparis ovensii;Zelkova carpinifolia	Other	No	No
ANON_2023b	Oxford University (Other)	Website	University of Oxford (2023). Genetic Garden. , 	2023	University of Oxford	Genetic Garden		Oxford	Curators of the University Parks								Lists of plants included in the Genetic Garden, a part of University Parks established for research. It includes mature trees and shrubs remain from the first plantings in 1964, together with herbaceous plants and bulbs which were also part of Professor Darlington’s scheme. Other plants of more recent genetic interest have been added to the collection. The natural variation within plants is represented, along with a wide range of mechanisms important in evolution and exploited by plant breeders.	University Parks	University Parks	Parks and Gardens		51.761619,-1.253489	1964	2003	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Aegopodium odagraria 'Variegatum';Ajuga reptans 'Atropurpurea';Ajuga reptans 'Burgundy Glow';Ajuga reptans 'Jungle Beauty';Antirrhinum majus;Asparagus officinale;Asplenium scolopendrium;Aucuba japonica 'Crotonifolia';Aucuba japonica 'Sulphurea Marginata';Berberis thunbergii;Berberis thunbergii 'Atropurpurea';Bronvaux medlar;Burkwood osmanthus;Buxus sempervirens;Campanula persicifolia;Caryopteris x cladonensis 'Worcester Gold';Castanea sativa;Castanea sativa 'Variegata';Choisya ternata 'Aztec Pearl';Convallaria majalis;Cornus alternifolia 'Argentea';Cornus mas 'Variegata';Corylus avellana 'Contorta';Crataegomespilus batesonii;Crataegomespilus dardarii;Crataegus monogyna;Crategus laevigata;Cryptomeria japonica 'Cristata';Euonymous fortunei 'Silver Queen';Euonymous japonicus 'Aureus';Euonymous japonicus 'Latifolius Albomarginatus';Fatsia japonica;Forsythia x intermedia 'Arnold Giant';Fritillaria persica 'Adiyaman';Geranium';Gladiolus communis ssp. Byzantinus;Hedera;Hedera;Hedera helix;Hedera helix 'Oro di Bogliasco';Helianthemum nummularium 'Walter Burrows';Holcus mollis 'Albovariegatus;Humulus lupulus 'Aureus';Hyacinthus orientalis;Hyacinthus orientalis ‘Myosotis’;Hyacinthus orientalis 'Ostara';Ilex aquifolium;Ilex aquifolium 'Ferox Argentea';Ilex aquifolium 'Golden Milkmaid';Iris foetidissima;Iris pseudacorus 'Allengold';Kerria;Kerria japonica 'Variegata';Kniphofia caulescens;Kniphofia longiflora;Laburnocytisus adamii;Lamium galeobdolon 'Hermanns Pride';Ligustrum japonicum;Lonicera nitida 'Baggesens Gold';Lonicera nitida 'Silver Beauty';Lunaria annua;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia nummularia 'Aurea';'Maculata';Malus sieboldii;Malus toringoides;Melissa officinalis 'All Gold';Mespilus germanica;Miscanthus sinensis ‘Zebrinus’;Miscanthus sinensis 'Variegatus';Muscari armeniacum;Narcissus;Narcissus 'Inglescomb';Oenothera odorata;Oenothera tetragona var. riparia;osmanthus;Osmanthus decorus;Osmanthus delavayi;Osmanthus x burkwoodii;Paeonia mascula;Phalaris arudinacea 'Picta';Philadelphus x lemoinei;Physalis alkekengi;Physalis peruviana;Physocarpus opulifolius;Prunus laurocerasus;Prunus laurocerasus;Prunus lusitanica 'Variegata';Pulmonaria saccharata;Pulmonaria saccharata;Pyrus 'Improved Fertility';Quercus cerris 'Variegata';Ranunculus ficaria;Ribes hybrid;Erithacus rubeculaia pseudoacacia;Erithacus rubeculaia pseudoacacia;'Rotundifolium';Rubus fruticosus 'Thornfree';Rubus hybrid 'Boysenberry';Rubus hybrid 'Loganberry';Rubus idaeus var. albus;Ruta graveolens;Salix babylonica var. pekinensis 'Tortuosa';Salix caprea 'Kilmarnock';Sambucus nigra;Sambucus nigra ‘Aurea’;Sedum acre;Silybum marianum;Syringa meyeri;Syringa x laciniata;Syringa x prestoniae;Thuja occidentalis;Thuja plicata;Veronica prostrata 'Trehane';Viburnum rhytidophyllum 'Variegatum';Viburnum tinus 'Variegatum';Vinca major 'Variegata';Vinca minor;x Crataemespilus grandiflora;x Mahoberberis;x Sorbopyrus auricularis	Other	No	Not Reported
ANON_1994	Solo (Print)	Book	ANON,  (1994). The Harcourt Arboretum, Nuneham Courtenay, Oxfordshire: part of the University of Oxford Botanic Garden. , 24-pp. 	1994	ANON	The Harcourt Arboretum, Nuneham Courtenay, Oxfordshire: part of the University of Oxford Botanic Garden		Oxford	University of Oxford Botanic Garden							24-pp	A brief guide and history.	Harcourt Arboretum	Harcourt Arboretum	Parks and Gardens		51.684555,-1.198519	Not Reported	1994	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Abies bracteata ;Acer spp.;Bambusoideae;Calocedrus decurrens;Catalpa bignonioides;Cedrus spp.;Chamaecyparis lawsoniana;Chusquea couleu;Cornus florida;Cornus kousa;Cotinus coggygria;Crinodendron hookerianum;Cryptomeria japonica;Cunninghamia lanceolata;Drinys winteri;Enkianthus deflexus;Erica arborea;Fagus spp.;Fothergilla major;Fraxinus excelsior;Hamamelis 'Diana';Hamamelis mollis;Hydrangea anomala subsp petiolaris;Ilex spp.;Illicium spp.;Lomatia tinctoria;Metasequoia glyptostroboides;Nothofagus spp.;Oxydendrum arboreum;Pieris taiwanensis;Pinus spp.;Pinus sylvestris;Pseudolarix amabilis Pseudotsuga menziesii;Quercus spp.;Rhododendron 'Amoenum Coccineum';Rhododendron augustinii ;Rhododendron luteum;Rhododendron luteum crosses;Rhododendron macabeanum;Rhododendron ponticum;Rhododendron x loderi 'King George';Sciadopitys verticillata;Sequoia sempervirens;Sequoiadendron giganteum;Styrax hemsleyana;Styrax hemsleyana;Tilia spp.;Torreya californica;Trachycarpus fortune;Trillium grandiflorum	Other	No	No
Culina_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Culina, A., Linton, D.M., Pradel, R., Bouwhuis, S., Macdonald, D.W. (2019). Live fast, don't die young: Survival–reproduction trade-offs in long-lived income breeders. Journal of Animal Ecology, 88(5) 746-756. 10.1111/1365-2656.12957	2019	Culina, A., Linton, D.M., Pradel, R., Bouwhuis, S., Macdonald, D.W.	Live fast, don't die young: Survival–reproduction trade-offs in long-lived income breeders	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.1111/1365-2656.12957		https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdfdirect/10.1111/1365-2656.12957?download=true		5	746-756	Trade-offs between survival and reproduction are at the core of life-history theory, and essential to understanding the evolution of reproductive tactics as well as population dynamics and stability. Factors influencing these trade-offs are multiple and often addressed in isolation. Further problems arise as reproductive states and survival in wild populations are estimated based on imperfect and potentially biased observation processes, which might lead to flawed conclusions. In this study, we aimed at elucidating trade-offs between current reproduction (both pregnancy and lactation), survival and future reproduction, including the specific costs of first reproduction, in long-lived, income breeding small mammals, an under-studied group. We developed a novel statistical framework that encapsulates the breeding life cycle of females, and accounts for incomplete information on female pregnancy and lactation and imperfect and biased recapture rates. We applied this framework to longitudinal data on two sympatric, closely related bat species (Myotis daubentonii and M. nattereri). We revealed the existence of several, to our knowledge previously unknown, trends in survival and breeding of these closely related, sympatric species and detected remarkable differences in their age and costs of first reproduction, as well as their survival–reproduction trade-offs. Our results indicate that species with this type of life history exhibit a mixture of patterns expected for long-lived and short-lived animals, and between income and capital breeders. Thus, we call for more studies to be conducted in similar study systems, increasing our ability to fully understand the evolutionary origin and fitness effects of trade-offs and senescence.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	2007	2015	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Mammals	Myotis daubentonii;Myotis nattereri	Other	No	No
Allen_1995	Solo (Print)	Book	Allen, L., Walker, T. (1995). The University of Oxford Botanic Garden. , 72 pp.. 	1995	Allen, L., Walker, T.	The University of Oxford Botanic Garden		Oxford	University of Oxford Botanic Garden							72 pp.	An account of the botanic garden as it is today, including a map, and descriptions of the walled garden, the specialized areas outside this (rock garden, lily pond, bog garden, river bank, herbaceous border, the 1648 collection - listed in the first catalogue, and glasshouse borders), the trees, the glasshouses (conservatory, alpine house, fernery, tropical lily house, orchid house, palm house, succulent house), and the Harcourt Arboretum at Nuneham Courtenay (a satellite garden). The last part of the booklet presents a history of the garden (20 pp.).	Oxford Botanic Garden 	Oxford Botanic Garden	Parks and Gardens		51.7506695,-1.247723986	1648	1995	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.7582,-1.3300	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76326403,-1.339992765	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.77758558,-1.32748523	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.77581898,-1.33601966	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76104055,-1.300415695	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Gamelon_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E. (2019). Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size. Ecology Letters, 22(5) 797-806. 10.1111/ele.13237	2019	Gamelon, M., Vriend, S.J.G., Engen, S., Adriaensen, F., Dhondt,  A.A., Evans, S.R., Matthysen, E., Sheldon, B.C., Sæther, B.E.	Accounting for interspecific competition and age structure in demographic analyses of density dependence improves predictions of fluctuations in population size	Ecology Letters				10.1111/ele.13237		https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ele.13237	22	5	797-806	Understanding species coexistence has long been a major goal of ecology. Coexistence theory for two competing species posits that intraspecific density dependence should be stronger than interspecific density dependence. Great tits and blue tits are two bird species that compete for food resources and nesting cavities. On the basis of long-term monitoring of these two competing species at sites across Europe, combining observational and manipulative approaches, we show that the strength of density regulation is similar for both species, and that individuals have contrasting abilities to compete depending on their age. For great tits, density regulation is driven mainly by intraspecific competition. In contrast, for blue tits, interspecific competition contributes as much as intraspecific competition, consistent with asymmetric competition between the two species. In addition, including age-specific effects of intra- and interspecific competition in density-dependence models improves predictions of fluctuations in population size by up to three times.	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76667323,-1.33029779	2001	2016	Not Reported	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Population Density	Yes	No
Linton_2019	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Linton, D., Macdonald, D.W. (2019). Roost composition and sexual segregation in a lowland population of Daubenton's bats (Myotis daubentonii). ACTA CHIROPTEROLOGICA, 21(1) 129-137. doi:10.3161/15081109ACC2019.21.1.010	2019	Linton, D., Macdonald, D.W.	Roost composition and sexual segregation in a lowland population of Daubenton's bats (Myotis daubentonii)	Acta Chiropterologica				doi:10.3161/15081109ACC2019.21.1.010	1508-1109 1733-5329		21	1	129-137	Using data from 1100 day roosts containing a minimum of 9424 Myotis daubentonii bats, we compare the distribution of adult males, adult females, and juveniles, within Schwegler (TM) box roosts distributed across 394 ha of woodland adjacent to a river corridor in lowland England. Five social groups, containing both males and females (each comprising 55-230 adult bats per annum, using 37-127 known roosts per colony), occupy discrete roosting areas to which individuals show high inter-annual fidelity. Natal philopatry is also high, compared to between colony movements, for both sexes in our study population. Despite considerable spatial overlap and variability in roost composition over the summer (April to October), related to temporal changes in reproductive status, there is sexual segregation within day roosts. Bachelor (adult male dominated) roosts are situated significantly further from water than maternity (adult female or juvenile dominated) roosts on average. This spatial partitioning between maternity and bachelor roosts operates within rather than between colony home roost ranges, however, with adult males from some social groups found roosting closer to water than are adult females from adjacent colonies. The co-occurrence of maternity and bachelor groups roosting in close proximity, including extensive spatial overlap in roosts occupied, and temporal overlap during roost sharing between the sexes, provides novel insights into social organisation and potential drivers of sexual segregation and mating strategies for this widespread and common species within lowland habitats.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.770666945905404,-1.331311658854735	1988	2018	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Mammals	Myotis daubentonii	Community Composition	Yes	No
Rennie_2018a	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2018). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) spittle bug data: 1993-2015. , doi:10.5285/AFF433BE-0869-4393-B765-9E6FAAD2A12B	2018	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) spittle bug data: 1993-2015					doi:10.5285/AFF433BE-0869-4393-B765-9E6FAAD2A12B						Spittle Bug data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected by quadrat sampling at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol . They represent continuous annual records from 1993 to 2015. Spittle Bug adults (Philaenus spumarius) are sampled and separated by sex and by colour morph; it is likely that the proportions of morphs are environmentally determined and will therefore be good indicators of environmental change. Spittle bug nymphs are counted and the mean number of nymphs per spittle recorded. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected by quadrat sampling at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1993	2015	Not Reported	Insects	Philaenus spumarius;Neophilaenus lineatus	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2018b	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Morecroft, M., Pallett, D., Schäfer, S.M., Taylor, M. (2018). Environmental Change Network (ECN) Wytham deer exclosure experiment: 1997-2008. , doi:10.5285/3FF83BF2-4864-4A7C-9EC0-DF1811A99A71	2018	Rennie, S., Morecroft, M., Pallett, D., Schäfer, S.M., Taylor, M.	Environmental Change Network (ECN) Wytham deer exclosure experiment: 1997-2008					doi:10.5285/3FF83BF2-4864-4A7C-9EC0-DF1811A99A71						The Environmental Change Network (ECN) coarse-grain and woodland protocols were used to assess the vegetation within the deer exclosure plots at the ECN Wytham site. In the ECN coarse-grain protocol, 2m x 2m plots are randomly selected on the site. Species presence is recorded in each of the 25 40cm x 40cm cells within the plots. In the ECN woodland protocol seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), tree height and dominance are recorded in 10m x 10m plots. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1997	2008	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Bréchet_2018	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Bréchet, L.M., Lopez-Sangil, L., George, C., Birkett, A.J., Baxendale, C., Castro T.B., Sayer, E.J. (2018). Distinct responses of soil respiration to experimental litter manipulation in temperate woodland and tropical forest. Ecology and Evolution, 8(7) 3787-3796. 10.1002/ece3.3945	2018	Bréchet, L.M., Lopez-Sangil, L., George, C., Birkett, A.J., Baxendale, C., Castro T.B., Sayer, E.J.	Distinct responses of soil respiration to experimental litter manipulation in temperate woodland and tropical forest	Ecology and Evolution				10.1002/ece3.3945	2045-7758	https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/ece3.3945https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdfdirect/10.1002/ece3.3945?download=true	8	7	3787-3796	Global change is affecting primary productivity in forests worldwide, and this, in turn, will alter long-term carbon (C) sequestration in wooded ecosystems. On one hand, increased primary productivity, for example, in response to elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2), can result in greater inputs of organic matter to the soil, which could increase C sequestration belowground. On other hand, many of the interactions between plants and microorganisms that determine soil C dynamics are poorly characterized, and additional inputs of plant material, such as leaf litter, can result in the mineralization of soil organic matter, and the release of soil C as CO2 during so-called “priming effects”. Until now, very few studies made direct comparison of changes in soil C dynamics in response to altered plant inputs in different wooded ecosystems. We addressed this with a cross-continental study with litter removal and addition treatments in a temperate woodland (Wytham Woods) and lowland tropical forest (Gigante forest) to compare the consequences of increased litterfall on soil respiration in two distinct wooded ecosystems. Mean soil respiration was almost twice as high at Gigante (5.0 μmol CO2 m−2 s−1) than at Wytham (2.7 μmol CO2 m−2 s−1) but surprisingly, litter manipulation treatments had a greater and more immediate effect on soil respiration at Wytham. We measured a 30% increase in soil respiration in response to litter addition treatments at Wytham, compared to a 10% increase at Gigante. Importantly, despite higher soil respiration rates at Gigante, priming effects were stronger and more consistent at Wytham. Our results suggest that in situ priming effects in wooded ecosystems track seasonality in litterfall and soil respiration but the amount of soil C released by priming is not proportional to rates of soil respiration. Instead, priming effects may be promoted by larger inputs of organic matter combined with slower turnover rates.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.779211,-1.328172	2013	2016	All Year	Not Reported		Not Reported	Yes	Yes
Linton_2018	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Linton, D.M., Macdonald, D.W. (2018). Spring weather conditions influence breeding phenology and reproductive success in sympatric bat populations. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 87(4) 1080-1090. doi:10.1111/1365-2656.12832	2018	Linton, D.M., Macdonald, D.W.	Spring weather conditions influence breeding phenology and reproductive success in sympatric bat populations	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.1111/1365-2656.12832	0021-8790 1365-2656		87	4	1080-1090	1. Climate is known to influence breeding phenology and reproductive success in temperate-zone bats, but long-term population level studies and interspecific comparisons are rare.2. Investigating the extent to which intrinsic (i.e. age), and extrinsic (i.e. spring weather conditions), factors influence such key demographic parameters as the proportion of females becoming pregnant, or completing lactation, each breeding season, is vital to understanding of bat population ecology and life-history traits.3. Using data from 12 breeding seasons (2006-2017), encompassing the reproductive histories of 623 Myotis daubentonii and 436 Myotis nattereri adult females, we compare rates of recruitment to the breeding population and show that these species differ in their relative sensitivity to environmental conditions and climatic variation, affecting annual reproductive success at the population level.4. We demonstrate that (1) spring weather conditions influence breeding phenology, with warm, dry and calm conditions leading to earlier parturition dates and advanced juvenile development, whilst cold, wet and windy weather delays birth timing and juvenile growth; (2) reproductive rates in first-year females are influenced by spring weather conditions in that breeding season and in the preceding breeding season when each cohort was born. Pregnancy and lactation rates were both higher when favourable spring foraging conditions were more prevalent; (3)reproductive success increases with age in both species, but at different rates; (4) reproductive rates were consistently higher, and showed less interannual variation, in second-year and older M.daubentonii (mean 91.55% 0.05 SD) than M. nattereri (mean 72.74% +/- 0.15 SD); (5) estimates of reproductive success at the population level were highly correlated with the size of the juvenile cohort recorded each breeding season.5. Improving understanding of the influence of environmental conditions, especially extreme climatic fluctuations, and the identification of critical periods (i.e. spring for reproductive female bats in temperate zones), which have disproportionate and lasting impacts on breeding phenology and reproductive success at a population level, is critical for improving predictions of the likely impact of climate change on bat populations.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	2006	2017	Not Reported	Mammals	Myotis daubentonii;Myotis nattereri	Other	Yes	No
Tkacz_2018	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Tkacz, A., Hortala, M., Poole, P.S. (2018). Absolute quantitation of microbiota abundance in environmental samples. Microbiome, 6(1) 110-110. 10.1186/s40168-018-0491-7	2018	Tkacz, A., Hortala, M., Poole, P.S.	Absolute quantitation of microbiota abundance in environmental samples	Microbiome				10.1186/s40168-018-0491-7	2049-2618	https://doi.org/10.1186/s40168-018-0491-7https://microbiomejournal.biomedcentral.com/counter/pdf/10.1186/s40168-018-0491-7.pdf	6	1	110-110	Background: Microbial communities (microbiota) influence human and animal disease and immunity, geochemical nutrient cycling and plant productivity. Specific groups, including bacteria, archaea, eukaryotes or fungi, are amplified by PCR to assess the relative abundance of sub-groups (e.g. genera). However, neither the absolute abundance of sub-groups is revealed, nor can different amplicon families (i.e. OTUs derived from a specific pair of PCR primers such as bacterial 16S, eukaryotic 18S or fungi ITS) be compared. This prevents determination of the absolute abundance of a particular group and domain-level shifts in microbiota abundance can remain undetected. Results: We have developed absolute quantitation of amplicon families using synthetic chimeric DNA spikes. Synthetic spikes were added directly to environmental samples, co-isolated and PCR-amplified, allowing calculation of the absolute abundance of amplicon families (e.g. prokaryotic 16S, eukaryotic 18S and fungal ITS per unit mass of sample). Conclusions: Spikes can be adapted to any amplicon-specific group including rhizobia from soils, Firmicutes and Bifidobacteria from human gut or Enterobacteriaceae from food samples. Crucially, using highly complex soil samples, we show that the absolute abundance of specific groups can remain steady or increase, even when their relative abundance decreases. Thus, without absolute quantitation, the underlying pathology, physiology and ecology of microbial groups may be masked by their relative abundance.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.770556,-1.338333	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Fungi	Exophiala, Thelebolus, Aspergillus, Wickerhamomyces, Pleosporales, Ceratocystis	Abundance	No	Yes
Rennie_2017a	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2015. , doi:10.5285/5886C3BA-1FA5-49C0-8DA8-40E69A10D2B5	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2015					doi:10.5285/5886C3BA-1FA5-49C0-8DA8-40E69A10D2B5						Bird species data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Counts of individual bird species are recorded. These data are collected, using the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO)'s Breeding Bird Survey methodology, at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous records from 1995 to 2015 (the transects are walked twice each year). ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. These data are collected, using the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO)'s Breeding Bird Survey methodology, at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1995	2015	All Year	Birds		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017b	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) moth data: 1992-2015. , doi:10.5285/A2A49F47-49B3-46DA-A434-BB22E524C5D2	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) moth data: 1992-2015					doi:10.5285/A2A49F47-49B3-46DA-A434-BB22E524C5D2						Moth data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Counts of individual species are recorded. These data are collected by moth traps at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol.They represent continuous nightly records from 1992 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. These data are collected by moth traps at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1992	2015	All Year	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017c	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) frog data: 1994-2015. , doi:10.5285/4D8C7DD9-8248-46CA-B988-C1FC38E51581	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) frog data: 1994-2015					doi:10.5285/4D8C7DD9-8248-46CA-B988-C1FC38E51581						Frog data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Variables measured include phenology (i.e. the dates when frogs start congregating, spawning, when hatching occurs and when the frogs leave), number of spawn masses, total surface area covered by spawn, percentage of dead spawn, depth, pH, conductivity, alkalinity, aluminium, calcium, chloride, ammonium, nitrate nitrogen, phosphate phosphorous, potassium, sulphate sulphur, sodium, total nitrogen and total dissolved phosphorous. These data are collected at ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous records from 1994 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	2015	Spring;Winter	Amphibians	Rana temporaria	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017d	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014. , doi:10.5285/94AEF007-634E-42DB-BC52-9AAE86ADBD33	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014					doi:10.5285/94AEF007-634E-42DB-BC52-9AAE86ADBD33						Woodland vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see Supporting documentation). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2014	All Year	Non-Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017d	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014. , doi:10.5285/94AEF007-634E-42DB-BC52-9AAE86ADBD33	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014					doi:10.5285/94AEF007-634E-42DB-BC52-9AAE86ADBD33						Woodland vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see Supporting documentation). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2014	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017e	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bat data: 1993-2015. , doi:10.5285/2588EE91-6CBD-4888-86FC-81858D1BF085	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bat data: 1993-2015					doi:10.5285/2588EE91-6CBD-4888-86FC-81858D1BF085						Bat species data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. The count of individual species is recorded. These data are collected while walking a defined transect using a bat detector at ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous records (the transects are walked four times each year) from 1993 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected while walking a defined transect using a bat detector at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol,four times each year. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2015	Summer	Mammals	Barbastella barbastellus;Eptesicus serotinus;Myotis;Myotis brandtii;Myotis daubentonii;Myotis nattereri;Myotis mystacinus;Nyctalus leisleri;Nyctalus noctula;Plecotus;Plecotus auritus;Pipistrellus;Pipistrellus pygmaeus;Pipistrellus pipistrellus;Rhinolophus hipposideros	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017f	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015. , doi:10.5285/B98EFEC8-6DE0-4E0C-85DC-FE4CDF01F086	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015					doi:10.5285/B98EFEC8-6DE0-4E0C-85DC-FE4CDF01F086						Fine Grain Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol, 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every three years (some sites record data annually) from 1994 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	2015	All Year	Non-Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017f	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015. , doi:10.5285/B98EFEC8-6DE0-4E0C-85DC-FE4CDF01F086	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015					doi:10.5285/B98EFEC8-6DE0-4E0C-85DC-FE4CDF01F086						Fine Grain Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol, 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every three years (some sites record data annually) from 1994 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	2015	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017g	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) carabid beetle data: 1992-2015. , doi:10.5285/8385F864-DD41-410F-B248-028F923CB281	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) carabid beetle data: 1992-2015					doi:10.5285/8385F864-DD41-410F-B248-028F923CB281						Carabid beetle data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. The count of individual species is recorded. These data are collected by pitfall traps at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous fortnightly records from 1992 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected by pitfall traps at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1992	2015	All Year	Insects	Carabidae	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017h	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) butterfly data: 1993-2015. , doi:10.5285/5AEDA581-B4F2-4E51-B1A6-890B6B3403A3	2017	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Clawson, S., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M., Wood, C.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) butterfly data: 1993-2015					doi:10.5285/5AEDA581-B4F2-4E51-B1A6-890B6B3403A3						Butterfly data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Counts of individual species are recorded. These data are collected while walking a defined transect at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous weekly records from 1993 to 2015. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites while walking a defined transect at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2015	All Year	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2017i	Solo (Digital)	Dataset	Rennie, S., Bater, J., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Britt, C., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Donovan, N., Hargreaves, P., Howe, M., Lane, M., McMillan, S., Morecroft, M., Onley, D., Overall, R., Pallett, D., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Taylor, M., Tyson, K.;, P., Taylor, M., Tyson, K. (2017). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) common breeding birds data 1971-2007. , doi:10.5285/8582A02C-B28C-45D2-AFA1-C1E85FBA023D	2017	Rennie, S., Bater, J., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Britt, C., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Donovan, N., Hargreaves, P., Howe, M., Lane, M., McMillan, S., Morecroft, M., Onley, D., Overall, R., Pallett, D., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Taylor, M., Tyson, K.;, P., Taylor, M., Tyson, K.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) common breeding birds data 1971-2007					doi:10.5285/8582A02C-B28C-45D2-AFA1-C1E85FBA023D						Bird species data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) lowland terrestrial sites. These data were collected, using the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO)'s Common Bird Census methodology (CBC), at ECN's lowland terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. This protocol was abandoned in favour of the Breeding Bird Survey (Rennie et al (2017) UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2015 https://doi.org/10.5285/5886c3ba-1fa5-49c0-8da8-40e69a10d2b5) in 1999; however, some sites continued to follow this protocol for a number of years after 1999 to allow comparison with the Breeding Bird Survey data. The CBC uses a mapping method in which a series of visits are made to all parts of a defined plot during the breeding season and contacts with birds by sight or sound are recorded on large-scale maps. Information from the series of visits is combined to estimate the number of territories found. Annual data are recorded but the date ranges available are variable for each site. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. These data are collected, using the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO)'s Common Bird Census methodology, at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: This resource is made available under the terms of the Open Government Licence	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1971	2007	All Year	Birds		Other	Yes	No
Culina_2017	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Culina, A., Linton, D.M., Macdonald, D.W. (2017). Testing for complex drivers of resource utilisation: A case-study of roost dynamics in bats. Basic and Applied Ecology, 25(28-36. 10.1016/j.baae.2017.10.001	2017	Culina, A., Linton, D.M., Macdonald, D.W.	Testing for complex drivers of resource utilisation: A case-study of roost dynamics in bats	Basic and Applied Ecology				10.1016/j.baae.2017.10.001			25		28-36	The extent to which a resource (e.g. nest site, food resource) is available and utilised in the wild is of fundamental importance to the understanding of species’ biology, community ecology, and for evidence-based conservation and habitat management. However, dynamics of resource use is challenging to study because it is likely determined by a complex set of (often unknown) factors and their interactions, and because of imperfect and biased detection rates (usually false absences). In this study we test for multiple drivers of summer roosting site occupancy by bats, using a rigorous statistical framework that combines multi-state occupancy models with two-class heterogeneity models. Understanding the utilization of this critical resource is a pre-requisite for any successful conservation management of (often declining) bat populations. We evaluated the importance of several external and internal sources of inter-annual roost occupancy dynamics in a community of three sympatric woodland bat species: weather, roost spatial position, roost intrinsic (unmeasurable) quality, memory effect in roost use, and inter-species dynamics. We identified the existence of two classes of the roost's intrinsic quality, and showed that bats tend to re-occupy previously occupied roosts irrespective of the roost intrinsic quality (memory effect). At the landscape scale, distance from water but not from the woodland edge influenced occupancy dynamics, with roosts closer to water having higher probability of being occupied. We also identified species-specific patterns of roost occupancy, colonisation and extinction, and between-species roost interchange. Our statistically powerful and flexible modelling approach can distinguish between multiple drivers of resource occupancy: measurable factors (environmental conditions and resource traits), unmeasurable (hidden or unknown) factors, previous use of the resource (memory effect) and community-level interactions. As such, it can be used to identify important areas for species (or communities), as well as to test evolutionary and ecological hypotheses concerning resource utilisation.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.76865365261662,-1.3310107303796623	2007	2014	Not Reported	Mammals	Myotis daubentonii;Myotis nattereri;Plecotus auritus L.	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.77758558,-1.32748523	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.78087811,-1.332909931	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.77581898,-1.33601966	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.77140238,-1.343711931	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76755832,-1.344520628	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76454537,-1.342530696	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Cleveland_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Thesis	Cleveland, C. (1997). A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 106 pp. + appendices. 	1997	Cleveland, C.	A survey of the veteran trees in Wytham Woods with a view to future management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						106 pp. + appendices	Veteran trees are fundamental to Britain's cultural and historical landscape and they have been identified as being important for nature conservation in terms of fungi, insects, birds and bat populations. Veteran trees occur as standards, coppice and pollards and a standard size cannot be defined, as ultimate diameter varies greatly between species. Chapter 1 discusses in detail why veteran trees exist today, and the different types of veteran trees that can be found across Britain.  Chapter 2 introduces the importance of veteran trees as a habitat for saproxylic invertebrates, fungi, epiphytes, bats and birds, and discusses current projects involved with promoting the importance of veteran trees in Britain. Little is known about their whereabouts and management requirements, and projects such as The Veteran Tree Initiative set up by English Nature stress the importance of recording and monitoring them with the hope of setting up a national register of ancient trees.  The commercial use of the timber in Wytham Woods throughout history has meant that due to the process of coppicing and pollarding, many trees have survived to old age. Veteran trees are therefore abundant throughout the woodland, distributed randomly in both the undisturbed and disturbed ancient and semi-natural woodland, in the secondary woodland, and in the park. The old trees in Wytham Woods have not been surveyed or assessed before now, and chapter 3 presents details of the survey carried out. Commencing with the secondary regenerated wood pasture and the ancient semi-natural sites, each compartment was surveyed to locate the veteran trees. The planted beech trees along "The Singing Way" were then surveyed, finally ending up in Marley Wood. A data sheet was completed for each tree, recording the grid ref., species, soil type, type of veteran, diameter, associated flora and fauna, and overall health and condition of the tree. Height was not measured because the majority of trees had either been pollarded or were too old for it to be a significant measurement.  The most commonly occurring species of ancient tree is Quercus robur, as a mature standard, however, there are some fine examples of beech, ash and oak in both pollard and standard form. Statistical analysis of the diameter measurements showed that there was no significant difference between the species.  The exact ages of the trees are unknown, but evidence and diameter measurements indicate a range between 150 years old to 400 years old. The largest tree recorded, called "Broad Oak", is probably an accidental survivor of the 17 century landscape and measures 227 cm dbh. Overall, the ancient trees were not in such poor condition as might be expected for their age, and chapter 4 presents details of the extensive flora and fauna that depend on the ancient trees in Wytham Woods for survival, this includes the rare beetle larva Tomoxia bucephala and the bracket fungi Fistulina hepatica.  Key management objectives for the veteran trees in Wytham Woods are given in chapter 5, stressing the importance to maintain and enhance their ecological role by keeping them alive as long as possible. There are seven key management guidelines for Wytham Woods: Ensure that a diverse age structure is maintained around the existing veteran trees to ensure a new generation of ancient trees; maintain the continuity of woodland habitat by keeping all existing veteran trees; release the mature and over-mature trees from competing vegetation; encourage the establishment of decay communities by creating suitable entry points; protect and enhance the existing bracket fungi, epiphytes and other decay communities; maintain ground vegetation as shelter for fallen wood; and reach a balance between public safety and the importance of retaining dead wood.  If we are to improve our understanding about the importance of ancient trees for nature conservation and alleviate the factors that threaten their existence - such as over enthusiastic tree surgery to make them safe, we must continue to record, monitor and care for our populations of veteran trees across the British countryside.  ;;; 	Wytham Estate	Common Piece;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Great Wood;Lord's Copse;Woodcroft & Plumers;Rough Copse;Marley Wood;Singing Way	Woodland		51.76667323,-1.33029779	1997	1997	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur;Fagus sylvatica;Fraxinus excelsiorAesculus hippocastanum;Castanea sativa;Carpinus betulus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Ilex aquifolium;Tilia x vulgaris	Other	No	No
Manning_2017b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Manning, P., Slade, E.M., Beynon, S.A., Lewis, O.T. (2017). Effect of dung beetle species richness and chemical perturbation on multiple ecosystem functions. Ecological Entomology, 42(5) 577-586. 10.1111/een.12421	2017	Manning, P., Slade, E.M., Beynon, S.A., Lewis, O.T.	Effect of dung beetle species richness and chemical perturbation on multiple ecosystem functions	Ecological Entomology				10.1111/een.12421		https://resjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/een.12421	42	5	577-586	1. The relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem functioning is typically positive but saturating, suggesting widespread functional redundancy within ecological communities. However, theory predicts that apparent redundancy can be reduced or removed when systems are perturbed, or when multifunctionality (the simultaneous delivery of multiple functions) is considered. 2. Manipulative experiments were used to test whether higher levels of dung beetle species richness enhanced individual functions and multifunctionality, and whether these relationships were influenced by perturbation (in this case, non-target exposure to the veterinary anthelmintic ivermectin). The four ecosystem functions tested were dung removal, primary productivity, soil faunal feeding activity and reduction in soil bulk density. 3. For individual functions, perturbation had limited effects on functioning, with only dung removal significantly (negatively) affected. Species richness did not, on its own, explain significant variation in the delivery of individual functions. In the case of primary productivity, an interaction between richness and perturbation was found: species-rich dung beetle assemblages enhanced forage growth in the unperturbed treatment, relative to the perturbed treatment. 4. Using a composite ‘multifunctionality index’ it was found that species-rich dung beetle assemblages delivered marginally higher levels of multifunctionality in unperturbed conditions; however, this benefit was lost under perturbation. Using a relatively new and robust method of assessing diversity–multifunctionality relationships across a range of thresholds, no significant effect of species richness on multifunctionality was found.	Wytham Estate	John Krebs Field Station	Grassland		51.78301678168543,-1.3159391112199912	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported		Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported
Rennie_2016a	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) coarse grain vegetation data: 1993-2012. , doi:10.5285/D349BABC-329A-4D6E-9ECA-92E630E1BE3F	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) coarse grain vegetation data: 1993-2012					doi:10.5285/D349BABC-329A-4D6E-9ECA-92E630E1BE3F						Coarse grain vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol, 50 2m x 2m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every nine years from 1993 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Coarse Grain Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). In this protocol 50 2m x 2m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every nine years from 1993 to 2012. Temporal extent of the dataset represents the earliest date on which data was collected relating to this dataset, and does not necessarily represent the date that all sites included in this dataset initiated data collection. All data collected are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2012	All Year	Non-Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016a	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) coarse grain vegetation data: 1993-2012. , doi:10.5285/D349BABC-329A-4D6E-9ECA-92E630E1BE3F	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) coarse grain vegetation data: 1993-2012					doi:10.5285/D349BABC-329A-4D6E-9ECA-92E630E1BE3F						Coarse grain vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol, 50 2m x 2m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every nine years from 1993 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Coarse Grain Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). In this protocol 50 2m x 2m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every nine years from 1993 to 2012. Temporal extent of the dataset represents the earliest date on which data was collected relating to this dataset, and does not necessarily represent the date that all sites included in this dataset initiated data collection. All data collected are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2012	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016b	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2011 [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014]. , doi:10.5285/EDFE7080-B9D4-4792-82EF-228AC670211A	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2011 [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014]					doi:10.5285/EDFE7080-B9D4-4792-82EF-228AC670211A						Woodland vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see Supporting documentation). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2011	All Year	Non-Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016b	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2011 [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014]. , doi:10.5285/EDFE7080-B9D4-4792-82EF-228AC670211A	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2011 [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) woodland vegetation data: 1993-2014]					doi:10.5285/EDFE7080-B9D4-4792-82EF-228AC670211A						Woodland vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see Supporting documentation). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). This survey is conducted when plots surveyed during the coarse-grain survey fall in woodland. Seedlings, diameter at breast height (dbh), height and species dominance are recorded within a surrounding 10m x 10m plot. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2011	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016c	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) Fine Grain Vegetation data: 1994-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015]. , doi:10.5285/5A1EFDFC-8F51-4EE9-9ED4-677BDDD3F135	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) Fine Grain Vegetation data: 1994-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015]					doi:10.5285/5A1EFDFC-8F51-4EE9-9ED4-677BDDD3F135						Fine Grain Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol, 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every three years (some sites record data annually) from 1992 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). In this protocol 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	2012	All Year	Non-Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016c	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) Fine Grain Vegetation data: 1994-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015]. , doi:10.5285/5A1EFDFC-8F51-4EE9-9ED4-677BDDD3F135	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) Fine Grain Vegetation data: 1994-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) fine grain vegetation data: 1994-2015]					doi:10.5285/5A1EFDFC-8F51-4EE9-9ED4-677BDDD3F135						Fine Grain Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). In this protocol, 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. They represent continuous records every three years (some sites record data annually) from 1992 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). In this protocol 10m x 10m plots are randomly selected within each vegetation type on the site - species presence is recorded in 40cm x 40 cm cells randomly selected within these plots. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	2012	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016d	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) baseline vegetation data: 1991-2000. , doi:10.5285/A7B49AC1-24F5-406E-AC8F-3D05FB583E3B	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) baseline vegetation data: 1991-2000					doi:10.5285/A7B49AC1-24F5-406E-AC8F-3D05FB583E3B						Baseline Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). This was a one-off whole site baseline vegetation survey (though given the intensive nature of this survey, some sites did it over successive years) to generate a vegetation map and identify the areas within the site to be monitored. In this protocol up to 500 systemic 2m x 2m plots were surveyed and species presence recorded. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). This was a one-off whole site baseline vegetation survey (though given the intensive nature of this survey some sites did it over successive years) to generate a vegetation map and identify the areas within the site to be monitored. In this protocol up to 500 systemic 2m x 2m plots were surveyed and species presence recorded. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	2000	All Year	Non-Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2016d	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2016). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) baseline vegetation data: 1991-2000. , doi:10.5285/A7B49AC1-24F5-406E-AC8F-3D05FB583E3B	2016	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) baseline vegetation data: 1991-2000					doi:10.5285/A7B49AC1-24F5-406E-AC8F-3D05FB583E3B						Baseline Vegetation data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (see supporting documentation). This was a one-off whole site baseline vegetation survey (though given the intensive nature of this survey, some sites did it over successive years) to generate a vegetation map and identify the areas within the site to be monitored. In this protocol up to 500 systemic 2m x 2m plots were surveyed and species presence recorded. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol (http://www.ecn.ac.uk/measurements/terrestrial/v). This was a one-off whole site baseline vegetation survey (though given the intensive nature of this survey some sites did it over successive years) to generate a vegetation map and identify the areas within the site to be monitored. In this protocol up to 500 systemic 2m x 2m plots were surveyed and species presence recorded. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	2000	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Evans_2016	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Evans, J.G., Ward, H.C., Blake, J.R., Hewitt, E.J., Morrison, R., Fry, M., Ball, L.A., Doughty, L.C., Libre, J.W., Hitt, O.E., Rylett, D., Ellis, R.J., Warwick, A.C., Brooks, M., Parkes, M.A., Wright, G.M.H., Singer, A.C., Boorman, D.B., Jenkins, A. (2016). Soil water content in southern England derived from a cosmic-ray soil moisture observing system – COSMOS-UK. Hydrological Processes, 30(26) 4987-4999. 10.1002/hyp.10929	2016	Evans, J.G., Ward, H.C., Blake, J.R., Hewitt, E.J., Morrison, R., Fry, M., Ball, L.A., Doughty, L.C., Libre, J.W., Hitt, O.E., Rylett, D., Ellis, R.J., Warwick, A.C., Brooks, M., Parkes, M.A., Wright, G.M.H., Singer, A.C., Boorman, D.B., Jenkins, A.	Soil water content in southern England derived from a cosmic-ray soil moisture observing system – COSMOS-UK	Hydrological Processes				10.1002/hyp.10929	0885-6087	https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/hyp.10929	30	26	4987-4999	Cosmic-ray soil moisture sensors have the advantage of a large measurement footprint (approximately 700 m in diameter) and are able to operate continuously to provide area-averaged near-surface (top 10–20 cm) volumetric soil moisture content at the field scale. This paper presents the application of this technique at four sites in southern England over almost 3 years. Results show the soil moisture response to contrasting climatic conditions during 2011–2014 and are the first such field-scale measurements made in the UK. These four sites are prototype stations for a UK COsmic-ray Soil Moisture Observing System, and particular consideration is given to sensor operating conditions in the UK. Comparison of these soil water content observations with the Joint UK Land Environment Simulator 10-cm soil moisture layer shows that these data can be used to test and diagnose model performance and indicate the potential for assimilation of these data into hydro-meteorological models. The application of these large-area soil water content measurements to evaluate remotely sensed soil moisture products is also demonstrated. Numerous applications and the future development of a national COsmic-ray Soil Moisture Observing System network are discussed. Copyright © 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.77113923468936,-1.3288211683051006	2013	2013	Autumn;Winter	Not Reported		Not Reported	Not Reported	Yes
Hiscox_2016	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hiscox, J., Savoury, M., Johnston, S.R., Parfitt, D., Müller, C.T., Rogers, H.J., Boddy, L. (2016). Location, location, location: priority effects in wood decay communities may vary between sites. Environmental microbiology, 18(6) 1954-1969. 10.1111/1462-2920.13141	2016	Hiscox, J., Savoury, M., Johnston, S.R., Parfitt, D., Müller, C.T., Rogers, H.J., Boddy, L.	Location, location, location: priority effects in wood decay communities may vary between sites	Environmental Microbiology				10.1111/1462-2920.13141	1462-2912	https://ami-journals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdfdirect/10.1111/1462-2920.13141?download=true	18	6	1954-1969	Priority effects are known to have a major influence on fungal community development in decomposing wood, but it has not yet been established whether these effects are consistent between different geographical locations. Here, beech (Fagus sylvatica) wood disks that had been pre-colonized with three wood decay basidiomycetes were placed in seven woodland sites with similar characteristics for 12-24 months, and the successor communities profiled using culture-based techniques coupled with amplicon sequencing. On the majority of sites, assembly history differed as a result of primary versus secondary resource capture only (i.e. different communities developed in uncolonized control disks compared with those that had been pre-colonized), but on certain sites distinct successor communities followed each pre-colonizer species. This study provides preliminary evidence that differences in abiotic factors and species pools between sites can cause spatial variation in how priority effects influence wood decay communities.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Fungi		Community Composition	No	No
Pallett_2016	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Pallett, D.W., Pescott, O.L., Schäfer, S.M. (2016). Changes in plant species richness and productivity in response to decreased nitrogen inputs in grassland in southern England. Ecological Indicators, 68(73-81. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2015.12.024	2016	Pallett, D.W., Pescott, O.L., Schäfer, S.M.	Changes in plant species richness and productivity in response to decreased nitrogen inputs in grassland in southern England	Ecological Indicators				https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2015.12.024	1470-160X	https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1470160X15007293	68		73-81	Biomass production and plant species diversity in grassland in southern England was monitored before and after a change from conventional to organic farming. Our 18-year study, part of the UK's Environmental Change Network long-term monitoring programme, showed that the cessation of artificial fertiliser use on grassland after conversion to organic farming resulted in a decrease in biomass production and an increase in plant species richness. Grassland productivity decreased immediately after fertiliser application ceased, and after two years the annual total biomass production had fallen by over 50%. In the subsequent decade, total annual grassland productivity did not change significantly, and yields reached 31–66% of the levels recorded pre-management change. Plant species richness that had remained stable during the first 5 years of our study under conventional farming, increased by 300% over the following 13 years under organic farm management. We suggest that the change in productivity is due to the altered composition of species within the plots. In the first few years after the change in farming practice, high yielding, nitrogen-loving plants were outcompeted by lower yielding grasses and forbs, and these species remained in the plots in the following years. This study shows that grassland can be converted from an environment lacking in plant species diversity to a relatively species-rich pasture within 10–15 years, simply by stopping or suspending nitrogen additions. We demonstrate that the trade-off for increasing species richness is a decrease in productivity. Grassland in the UK is often not only managed from a conservation perspective, but to also produce a profitable yield. By considering the species composition and encouraging specific beneficial species such as legumes, it may be possible to improve biomass productivity and reduce the trade-off.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Upper Seeds	Farmland		51.768935,-1.329199	1996	2014	All Year	Non-Vascular plants	Agrimonia eupatoria;Agrostis capillaris;Agrostis stolonifera;Alopecurus pratensis;Aphanes arvensis;Arrhenatherum elatius;Brachythecium rutabulum;Bromus hordeaceus;Calliergonella cuspidata;Campyliadelphus chrysophyllus;Carex caryophyllea;Cerastium fontanum;Cirsium arvense;Cirsium eriophorum;Clinopodium vulgare;Conopodium majus;Convolvulus arvensis;Crepis capillaris;Cynosurus cristatus;Dactylis glomerata;Festuca rubra;Fraxinus excelsior;Galium aparine;Galium verum;Geranium dissectum;Geranium molle;Glechoma hederacea;Holcus lanatus;Hypericum hirsutum;Kindbergia praelonga;Linum catharticum;Lolium multiflorum;Lolium perenne;Lotus corniculatus;Luzula campestris;Medicago lupulina;Pastinaca sativa;Phleum bertolonii;Phleum pratense;Pilosella officinarum agg.;Plagiomnium affine;Poa annua;Poa pratensis;Poa trivialis;Polygala serpyllifolia;Potentilla reptans;Prunella vulgaris;Pseudoscleropodium purum;Pteridium aquilinum;Ranunculus repens;Rhynchostegium confertum;Rhytidiadelphus squarrosus;Rumex acetosa;Schistidium apocarpum;Sherardia arvensis;Taraxacum officinale agg.;Trifolium repens;Trisetum flavescens;Urtica dioica;Veronica agrestis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica chamaedrys;Viola hirta	Diversity	Yes	No
Pallett_2016	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Pallett, D.W., Pescott, O.L., Schäfer, S.M. (2016). Changes in plant species richness and productivity in response to decreased nitrogen inputs in grassland in southern England. Ecological Indicators, 68(73-81. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2015.12.024	2016	Pallett, D.W., Pescott, O.L., Schäfer, S.M.	Changes in plant species richness and productivity in response to decreased nitrogen inputs in grassland in southern England	Ecological Indicators				https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2015.12.024	1470-160X	https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1470160X15007293	68		73-81	Biomass production and plant species diversity in grassland in southern England was monitored before and after a change from conventional to organic farming. Our 18-year study, part of the UK's Environmental Change Network long-term monitoring programme, showed that the cessation of artificial fertiliser use on grassland after conversion to organic farming resulted in a decrease in biomass production and an increase in plant species richness. Grassland productivity decreased immediately after fertiliser application ceased, and after two years the annual total biomass production had fallen by over 50%. In the subsequent decade, total annual grassland productivity did not change significantly, and yields reached 31–66% of the levels recorded pre-management change. Plant species richness that had remained stable during the first 5 years of our study under conventional farming, increased by 300% over the following 13 years under organic farm management. We suggest that the change in productivity is due to the altered composition of species within the plots. In the first few years after the change in farming practice, high yielding, nitrogen-loving plants were outcompeted by lower yielding grasses and forbs, and these species remained in the plots in the following years. This study shows that grassland can be converted from an environment lacking in plant species diversity to a relatively species-rich pasture within 10–15 years, simply by stopping or suspending nitrogen additions. We demonstrate that the trade-off for increasing species richness is a decrease in productivity. Grassland in the UK is often not only managed from a conservation perspective, but to also produce a profitable yield. By considering the species composition and encouraging specific beneficial species such as legumes, it may be possible to improve biomass productivity and reduce the trade-off.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Upper Seeds	Farmland		51.77012495,-1.332787491	1996	2014	All Year	Non-Vascular plants	Agrimonia eupatoria;Agrostis capillaris;Agrostis stolonifera;Alopecurus pratensis;Aphanes arvensis;Arrhenatherum elatius;Brachythecium rutabulum;Bromus hordeaceus;Calliergonella cuspidata;Campyliadelphus chrysophyllus;Carex caryophyllea;Cerastium fontanum;Cirsium arvense;Cirsium eriophorum;Clinopodium vulgare;Conopodium majus;Convolvulus arvensis;Crepis capillaris;Cynosurus cristatus;Dactylis glomerata;Festuca rubra;Fraxinus excelsior;Galium aparine;Galium verum;Geranium dissectum;Geranium molle;Glechoma hederacea;Holcus lanatus;Hypericum hirsutum;Kindbergia praelonga;Linum catharticum;Lolium multiflorum;Lolium perenne;Lotus corniculatus;Luzula campestris;Medicago lupulina;Pastinaca sativa;Phleum bertolonii;Phleum pratense;Pilosella officinarum agg.;Plagiomnium affine;Poa annua;Poa pratensis;Poa trivialis;Polygala serpyllifolia;Potentilla reptans;Prunella vulgaris;Pseudoscleropodium purum;Pteridium aquilinum;Ranunculus repens;Rhynchostegium confertum;Rhytidiadelphus squarrosus;Rumex acetosa;Schistidium apocarpum;Sherardia arvensis;Taraxacum officinale agg.;Trifolium repens;Trisetum flavescens;Urtica dioica;Veronica agrestis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica chamaedrys;Viola hirta	Diversity	Yes	No
Rennie_2015a	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2015). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2015]. , doi:10.5285/C616149A-FB19-4D6B-A9E5-84363538ED7E	2015	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, A., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bird data: 1995-2015]					doi:10.5285/C616149A-FB19-4D6B-A9E5-84363538ED7E						Bird species data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Counts of individual bird species are recorded. These data are collected, using the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO)'s Breeding Bird Survey methodology, at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous records from 1995 to 2012 (the transects are walked twice each year). ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. These data are collected, using the British Trust for Ornithology (BTO)'s Breeding Bird Survey methodology, at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1995	2012	All Year	Birds		Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2015b	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2015). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bat data: 1993-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bat data: 1993-2015]. , doi:10.5285/CFDB346F-6CDE-4FBA-9044-96E202398435	2015	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bat data: 1993-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) bat data: 1993-2015]					doi:10.5285/CFDB346F-6CDE-4FBA-9044-96E202398435						Bat species data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. The count of individual species is recorded. These data are collected while walking a defined transect using a bat detector at ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous records (the transects are walked four times each year) from 1993 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected while walking a defined transect using a bat detector at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol,four times each year. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2012	Summer	Mammals	Chiroptera 	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2015c	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2015). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) frog data: 1994-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) frog data: 1994-2015]. , doi:10.5285/CA2B1766-2ACC-4EEB-82D1-29970E9A5667	2015	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) frog data: 1994-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) frog data: 1994-2015]					doi:10.5285/CA2B1766-2ACC-4EEB-82D1-29970E9A5667						Frog data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Variables measured include phenology (i.e. the dates when frogs start congregating, spawning, when hatching occurs and when the frogs leave), number of spawn masses, total surface area covered by spawn, percentage of dead spawn, depth, pH, conductivity, alkalinity, aluminium, calcium, chloride, ammonium, nitrate nitrogen, phosphate phosphorous, potassium, sulphate sulphur, sodium, total nitrogen and total dissolved phosphorous. These data are collected at ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous records from 1994 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. These data are collected at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	2012	Spring;Winter	Amphibians	Rana temporaria	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2015d	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2015). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) butterfly data: 1993-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) butterfly data: 1993-2015]. , doi:10.5285/DAD68DC4-9E36-457E-AA3A-E7EB816FB508	2015	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) butterfly data: 1993-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) butterfly data: 1993-2015]					doi:10.5285/DAD68DC4-9E36-457E-AA3A-E7EB816FB508						Butterfly data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. Counts of individual species are recorded. These data are collected while walking a defined transect at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous weekly records from 1993 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites while walking a defined transect at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2012	All Year	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2015e	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2015). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) carabid beetle data: 1992-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) carabid beetle data: 1992-2015]. , doi:10.5285/4C9613CE-DE52-41B1-9FDE-7C41F9199686	2015	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) carabid beetle data: 1992-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) carabid beetle data: 1992-2015]					doi:10.5285/4C9613CE-DE52-41B1-9FDE-7C41F9199686						Carabid beetle data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. The count of individual species is recorded. These data are collected by pitfall traps at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. They represent continuous fortnightly records from 1992 to 2012. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected by pitfall traps at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1992	2012	All Year	Insects	Coleoptera	Other	Yes	No
Rennie_2015f	External	Dataset	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M. (2015). UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) spittle bug data: 1993-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) spittle bug data: 1993-2015]. , doi:10.5285/E1C292B0-12C7-4998-B48F-7A83A203E604	2015	Rennie, S., Adamson, J., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J., Bayfield, N., Beaton, K., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V., Britt, C., Brooker, R., Brooks, D., Brunt, J., Common, G., Cooper, R., Corbett, S., Critchley, N., Dennis, P., Dick, J., Dodd, B., Dodd, N., Donovan, N., Easter, J., Eaton, E., Flexen, M., Gardiner, A., Hamilton, D., Hargreaves, P., Hatton-Ellis, M., Howe, M., Kahl, J., Lane, M., Langan, S., Lloyd, D., McElarney, Y., McKenna, C., McMillan, S., Milne, F., Milne, L., Morecroft, M., Murphy, M., Nelson, A., Nicholson, H., Pallett, D., Parry, D., Pearce, I., Pozsgai, G., Rose, R., Schäfer, S.M., Scott, T., Sherrin, L., Shortall, C., Smith, R., Smith, P., Tait, R., Taylor, C., Taylor, M., Thurlow, M., Tilbury, C., Turner, A., Tyson, K., Watson, H., Whittaker, M.	UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) spittle bug data: 1993-2012. [THIS DATASET HAS BEEN SUPERSEDED. The latest version is UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) spittle bug data: 1993-2015]					doi:10.5285/E1C292B0-12C7-4998-B48F-7A83A203E604						Spittle Bug data from the UK Environmental Change Network (ECN) terrestrial sites. These data are collected by quadrat sampling at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol . They represent continuous annual records from 1993 to 2012. Spittle Bug adults (Philaenus spumarius) are sampled and separated by sex and by colour morph; it is likely that the proportions of morphs are environmentally determined and will therefore be good indicators of environmental change. Spittle bug nymphs are counted and the mean number of nymphs per spittle recorded. ECN is the UK's long-term environmental monitoring programme. It is a multi-agency programme sponsored by a consortium of fourteen government departments and agencies. These organisations contribute to the programme through funding either site monitoring and/or network co-ordination activities. These organisations are: Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru - Natural Resources Wales, Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, Environment Agency, Forestry Commission, Llywodraeth Cymru - Welsh Government, Natural England, Natural Environment Research Council, Northern Ireland Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency, Scottish Government and Scottish Natural Heritage. Data are collected by quadrat sampling at all of ECN's terrestrial sites using a standard protocol. Prior to deposit of the data in the EIDC, data are managed by the ECN Data Centre at CEH Lancaster according to defined protocols. Verification steps include numeric range checks (i.e. checking if a value falls within a specified range), categorical checks (e.g. checking that a species code appears on the standard code list), formatting (i.e. that the dataset conforms to the specified data format) and logical integrity checks (i.e. checking the data make sense, e.g. that the dates in one dataset match those in a related dataset). Appropriate range settings for ECN variables have been selected following discussion with specialists in each field. Where data fall outside these ranges, a cautious approach has been adopted towards discarding data on the principle that apparent errors may be valid outliers. Such values are discarded only if there is a clear explanation (e.g. an instrumentation error) and corrections are made where possible. If the reason is unclear, the values are stored, but are qualified using pre-defined quality codes or free-text descriptions. Data providers also use these codes or free text to describe factors affecting sampling outside their control, instrument damage or site management effects. Copyright: Licence terms and conditions apply	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2012	All Year	Insects	Philaenus spumarius;Neophilaenus lineatus	Other	Yes	No
Elton_1966	Solo (Print)	Book	Elton, C.S. (1966). The pattern of animal communities. The pattern of animal communities., 	1966	Elton, C.S.	The pattern of animal communities											The work is chiefly based on the Ecological Survey of Wytham Woods, Oxford, with its many different habitats, but also draws on other ecological research to discuss the classification and analysis of habitat patterns, food chains, plant and animal relationships etc. Special habitats discussed include heathland, scrub and hedgerow, the forest canopy the ground zone of deciduous woodlands, dying and dead wood, etc. KEYWORDS: animal ecology \ ecology \ England \ woodlands	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation	Woodland	1	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1964	1964	Not Reported	Insects	Lasius brunneus; Prionychus ater; Cryptops hortensis	Other	No	No
Coombes_2015	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Coombes, M.A., Viles, H.A. (2015). Population-level zoogeomorphology: the case of the Eurasian badger (Meles meles L.). PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, 36(3) 215-238. doi:10.1080/02723646.2015.1026170	2015	Coombes, M.A., Viles, H.A.	Population-level zoogeomorphology: the case of the Eurasian badger (Meles meles L.)	Physical Geography				doi:10.1080/02723646.2015.1026170	0272-3646 1930-0557		36	3	215-238	The zoogeomorphological impact of burrowing animals varies in time and space as a result of the particular life history traits of the organisms involved, the patchy distribution of habitat resources, and fluctuations in population size. Such ecological complexity presents a major challenge for biogeomorphologists wishing to upscale from individuals to populations. Using a unique ecological data set for Eurasian badgers (Meles meles L.) in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, UK, we show that direct zoogeomorphological impact (soil displacement during sett excavation) is constrained by fluctuations in overall population size. Modeled digging rates for individual badgers (0.19-4.51m(3)yr(-1)) varied depending on the ecological function of the sett they are associated with, and we estimate that the whole population has displaced 304-601 +/- 72m(3) of soil during the construction of 64 setts. This represents an overall excavation rate of 6.7-19.4m(3) (6.0-17.5 t)yr(-1) in sett areas or 1.42-4.12gm(-2)yr(-1) when averaged over the whole 424ha woodland. As well as direct soil displacement, badger digging exposes material that is initially susceptible to erosion by water relative to undisturbed and litter-covered soils. Over time, setts become stabilized, representing unique landforms that persist in the landscape for decades to centuries.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1987	2004	Not Reported;Summer	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Feber_2018	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Feber, R.E., Johnson, P.J., Manley, W.J., Macdonald, D.W. (2018). Small woodlands and butterfly conservation on farmland. Aspects of Applied Biology, 139) 203-207. 	2018	Feber, R.E., Johnson, P.J., Manley, W.J., Macdonald, D.W.	Small woodlands and butterfly conservation on farmland	Aspects of Applied Biology					0265-1491			139	203-207		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Farmland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	2017	2017	Autumn	Insects	Pararge aegeria;Polygonia c-album	Population Density	No	No
Buesching_2014	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Buesching, C.D., Newman, C., Macdonald, D.W. (2014). How dear are deer volunteers: the efficiency of monitoring deer using teams of volunteers to conduct pellet group counts. ORYX, 48(4) 593-601. doi:10.1017/S0030605313000227	2014	Buesching, C.D., Newman, C., Macdonald, D.W.	How dear are deer volunteers: the efficiency of monitoring deer using teams of volunteers to conduct pellet group counts	Oryx				doi:10.1017/S0030605313000227	0030-6053 1365-3008		48	4	593-601	Deer populations are increasing throughout the northern hemisphere, and unregulated numbers can jeopardize biodiversity and the economy. These populations are difficult to monitor using visual counts. Estimating densities from surveys of faecal pellets is reliable but time-consuming and thus, if carried out by professionals, expensive. Utilizing volunteers has clear advantages. Based on research from the UK (6 years) and Nova Scotia, Canada (4 years), we investigated the methodological refinements and training required to achieve reliable data when using volunteers. For safety reasons volunteers worked in teams of 5-10 (n = 611) under supervision of scientists. We compared faecal accumulation rate and faecal standing crop surveys using 10 x 10 m quadrats. Both methods produced similar estimates of density, but because of significant time savings and greater volunteer enjoyment we favour faecal standing crop over faecal accumulation rate surveys. Volunteer teams surveyed quadrats significantly faster than a single professional but needed significantly longer to reach and stake out new quadrats. On average, teams found 68% of all droppings. Performance of individuals was affected by training, gender, and willingness and aptitude to survey. After five quadrats men scored significantly higher than women but this difference was reduced after 20 quadrats. Age did not affect performance but willingness and aptitude correlated with ability to find and identify droppings. We conclude that volunteers can monitor deer effectively but that techniques should be modified. The provision of context, training, supervision and verification by a professional are essential. Because of the drain on scientists' time, cost-effective volunteer deployment is a question of scale.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.76679285424121,-1.3333815797592505	2000	2005	Summer	Mammals	Dama dama;Capreolus capreolus	Population Density	Yes	No
Kirby_2014	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kirby, K.J., Bazely, D.R., Goldberg, E.A., Hall, J.E., Isted, R., Perry, S.C., Thomas, R.C. (2014). Changes in the tree and shrub layer of Wytham Woods (Southern England) 1974-2012: local and national trends compared. Forestry (Oxford), 87(5) 663-673. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/cpu026	2014	Kirby, K.J., Bazely, D.R., Goldberg, E.A., Hall, J.E., Isted, R., Perry, S.C., Thomas, R.C.	Changes in the tree and shrub layer of Wytham Woods (Southern England) 1974-2012: local and national trends compared	Forestry				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/cpu026	0015-752X	http://forestry.oxfordjournals.org/	87	5	663-673	Changes in the woody composition of Wytham Woods since 1974 are described, related to national trends in broadleaved woodland, and used to suggest the impact of future changes such as from ash dieback disease (Chalara fraxinea). Data on the tree and shrub layer from 164 permanent 10x10 m plots distributed in a grid across the Woods are presented from 1974, 1991, 1999 and 2012, on species occurrence, regeneration, contribution to the canopy and basal area. Variations in the current and past composition and structure of the Woods are related to past forestry management and natural succession/disturbance processes. These largely mirror changes shown by other surveys at a national level. Fraxinus excelsior has been increasing in prominence across the Woods since 1974, but its future is uncertain because of disease. The species most likely to increase if there is a severe decline in F. excelsior at Wytham appear to be Acer pseudoplatanus, Corylus avellana and Quercus robur. There are benefits from linking long-term studies at one site to wider less detailed surveys in order to explore the general applicability of the results.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1974	2012	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Fraxinus excelsior; Acer pseudoplatanus; Quercus robur; Fagus sylvatica; Betula spp; Ulmus procera; Acer campestre; Salix spp; Ilex aquifolium; Crataegus spp; Corylus avellana; Prunus spinosa; Sambucus nigra; Euonymus europaeus; Ligustrum vulgare; Cornus sanguinea; Hygromia hispida	Abundance	Yes	No
Gosler_1990	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Gosler, A. (1990). The Birds of Wytham - An Historical Survey. Fritillary, 1(May) 29-73. 	1990	Gosler, A.	The Birds of Wytham - An Historical Survey	Fritillary						https://www.researchgate.net/publication/248392929_The_Birds_of_Wytham_-_An_Historical_Survey	1	May	29-73	The Wytham estate near Oxford, owned since 1943 by Oxford University, has been the site for the most intensive ecological survey ever undertaken at a single site. In addition, members of the Univer sity's Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology have carried out many studies of the birds on the estate including long-term population studies of tits and tawny owls. This research has contributed much to our understanding of the ecology and evolution of natural populations. Despite this intense ornithological activity, a general description of the estate's avifauna has never been published. This paper attempts to rectify this and describes in detail the status of all bird species recorded on the estate up until the end of 1989. In so doing it raises the official Wytham Survey list of species from 73 to 152, comprising 74 irregular and 78 regular species. These are listed in standard Wetmore order within these two broad categories. For irregular species the account describes, as far as possible, the change in status over the last 50 to 70 years. In some cases the accounts critically assess the effects of particular management practices on the bird's status. For regular species, the accounts also list D.Phil. theses undertaken by students at the Edward Grey Institute, give estimates of breeding and winter densities, and for migrants also give arrival and departure dates. The species accounts draw heavily on 'casual' records published by the Oxford Ornithological Society and these make up half of the 1,072 records presented in the systematic list. It is hoped that this review will provide a baseline for future recording on the estate, and encourage a more systematic approach to general bird recording in the future.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Arable;Farmland;Grassland;Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	Not Reported	1989	Not Reported	Birds		Other	Yes	No
Hall_2000	Solo (Print)	Report	Hall, J.E., Kirby, K.J. (2000). Trends in vegetation cover and species richness in Wytham Woods, 1974-1999. English Nature Research Reports, 363. 23-pp. 	2000	Hall, J.E., Kirby, K.J.	Trends in vegetation cover and species richness in Wytham Woods, 1974-1999	English Nature Report	Peterborough	English Nature						363	23-pp	Data from 24 permanent plots in Wytham Woods (out of a total set of 163) were available from 1974, 1985, 1991 and the most recent re-recording in 1999. The site is a mosaic of ancient and recent woodland near Oxford, UK, dominated by Quercus robur, Fraxinus excelsior and Acer pseudoplatanus. Results were used to explore trends in vegetation cover, species richness and the abundance of particular species over a 25-year period. The main trends were confirmed: a decline in the shrub layer; broad stability in the canopy layer; high plot-to-plot variation in vegetation cover changes; no change in overall species richness; decline in bramble (Rubus fruticosus) cover; increases in cover of other species, notably Brachypodium sylvaticum.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	24	51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1999	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Ajuga reptans;Angelica sylvestris;Arum maculatum;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Bromopsis ramosus;Cardamine flexuosa;Carex pendula;Chamerion angustifolium;Circaea lutetiana;Deschampsia cespitosa;Heracleum sphondylium;Hyacinthoides non-scripta;Hypericum tetrapterum;Lonicera periclymenum;Mercurialis perennis;Poa trivialis;Potentilla sterilis;Rubus caesius;Rubus fruticosus;Scrophularia nodosa;Sonchus oleraceus;Stachys sylvatica;Tamus communis;Veronica chamaedrys;Viola riviniana	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Buesching_2011	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Buesching, C.D., Newman, C., Jones, J.T., Macdonald, D.W. (2011). Testing the effects of deer grazing on two woodland rodents, bankvoles and woodmice. BASIC AND APPLIED ECOLOGY, 12(3) 207-214. doi:10.1016/j.baae.2011.02.007	2011	Buesching, C.D., Newman, C., Jones, J.T., Macdonald, D.W.	Testing the effects of deer grazing on two woodland rodents, bankvoles and woodmice	Basic and Applied Ecology				doi:10.1016/j.baae.2011.02.007	1439-1791 1618-0089		12	3	207-214	Over the past 200 years, deer numbers have risen world-wide. The associated increase in browsing pressure and trampling often resulted in significant vegetation changes and associated conservation problems in other taxa. In this study we investigated the effects of increased deer browsing (0.4-1.5 deer/ha) on a temperate woodland ecosystem by comparing small mammal communities and vegetation characteristics in 4 deer-free exclosures with adjacent woodland transects subjected to deer grazing.Jolly-Seber analyses of Capture-Mark-Recapture (CMR) results revealed that the significant reduction of bushes and shrubs in deer-grazed woodland was associated with significantly lower rodent densities than in deer-free exclosures at all times. However, whereas bankvoles (Myodes glareolus) outnumbered woodmice (Apodemus sylvaticus) in exclosures by 4:1, on average there were 1.6 times as many woodmice in the open woodland than bankvoles. Population structure did not differ between animals caught in exclosures vs. open woodland in terms of body weight, reproductive status, age structure nor sex ratio in either species.Our results highlight the need of bankvoles for denser understorey as protection from predators, compared with the woodmouse's greater agility and resulting ability to escape predators in open woodland as well as the ability to exploit arboreal habitats. The study emphasises the necessity for effective and informed deer management in order to conserve forest ecosystems.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.773889,-1.321944	2001	2003	Summer	Mammals	Myodes glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
Haughton_1999	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Haughton, A.J., Bell, J.R., Gates, S., Johnson, P.J., Macdonald, D.W., Tattersall, F.H., Hart, B.H. (1999). Methods of increasing invertebrate abundance within field margins. Aspects of Applied Biology, 54(163-170. 	1999	Haughton, A.J., Bell, J.R., Gates, S., Johnson, P.J., Macdonald, D.W., Tattersall, F.H., Hart, B.H.	Methods of increasing invertebrate abundance within field margins	Aspects of Applied Biology					0265-1491		54		163-170		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable	1	51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1987	Autumn;Summer	Arachnids		Abundance	No	No
Haughton_1999	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Haughton, A.J., Bell, J.R., Gates, S., Johnson, P.J., Macdonald, D.W., Tattersall, F.H., Hart, B.H. (1999). Methods of increasing invertebrate abundance within field margins. Aspects of Applied Biology, 54(163-170. 	1999	Haughton, A.J., Bell, J.R., Gates, S., Johnson, P.J., Macdonald, D.W., Tattersall, F.H., Hart, B.H.	Methods of increasing invertebrate abundance within field margins	Aspects of Applied Biology					0265-1491		54		163-170		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable	1	51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1987	Autumn;Summer	Insects		Abundance	No	No
Hirons_1985	External	Journal Article	Hirons, G.J.M. (1985). THE EFFECTS OF TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR ON THE STABILITY AND DISPERSION OF TAWNY OWL STRIX-ALUCO POPULATIONS. Journal of Zoology Series B, 1(21-48. 	1985	Hirons, G.J.M.	THE EFFECTS OF TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR ON THE STABILITY AND DISPERSION OF TAWNY OWL STRIX-ALUCO POPULATIONS	Journal of Zoology					0268-196X		1		21-48	The effect of territorial behaviour on the density and stability of Tawny owl (Strix aluco (L.)) populations was studied in three habitats during 1971-74: deciduous woodland (Wytham, near Oxford), [England, UK], mixed farmland (south Warwickshire) and conifer plantations (Dumfries). Territory size was determined by plotting the position of territorial challenges (hoots) of males; these were individually recognizable. In all three areas, pairs of owls maintained contiguous territories which changed little in size and configuration from year to year. In Wytham, this was in spite of wide fluctuations in the abundance of rodent prey. Territory size was most variable on farmland (17-74 ha) where it was inversely correlated with the area of closed woodland contained within territories. The mean size of territories was significantly smaller in the deciduous woodland (18.2 ha) than the coniferous woodland (46.1 ha) or farmland (37.4 ha). This variation was probably ultimately related to the availability of prey in different habitats. In Wytham, the annual rate of disappearance of territory-holding males was around 15% and, except after a poor breeding season, birds which disappeared or were removed from their territories were replaced rapidly. Territory boundaries remained the same after replacement and the number and spatial configuration of territories (around 30) was similar to that found 14 years earlier. There is some evidence that individual pairs would be able to rise more young if they could defend larger territories than is possible at the current population size. Recoveries of birds ringed nationally indicate that owls survive less well without territories, and that young suffer heavy mortality in their first autumn. The proportion of young recovered was highest in years when many were ringed. Examination of 276 corpses (mostly road casualties) suggests that many young starve soon after becoming independent. These observations support the idea that the stability of Tawny owl populations results from the territorial behaviour of residents acting to produce subsequent mortality among birds unable to establish their own territories. This regulation probably applies over wide areas and a variety of habitats.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1955	1974	Not Reported	Birds	Strix aluco	Abundance	Yes	No
Fenn_2010	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Fenn, K.M., Malhi, Y., Morecroft, M.D. (2010). Soil CO2 efflux in a temperate deciduous forest: environmental drivers and component contributions. Soil Biology & Biochemistry, 42(10) 1685-1693. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.05.028	2010	Fenn, K.M., Malhi, Y., Morecroft, M.D.	Soil CO2 efflux in a temperate deciduous forest: environmental drivers and component contributions	Soil Biology & Biochemistry				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.05.028	0038-0717	http://www.elsevier.com/locate/soilbio	42	10	1685-1693	Soil CO2 efflux is a large component of total respiration in many ecosystems. It is important to understand the environmental controls on soil CO2 efflux, in order to evaluate potential responses of ecosystems to climate change. This study investigated the relationship between total soil CO2 efflux and soil temperature, soil moisture and solar radiation on an interannual basis for a plot of temperate deciduous ancient semi-natural woodland at Wytham Woods in central southern England. We also aimed to quantify the contribution of soil organic matter decomposition (SOM), root-and-rhizosphere respiration, and mycorrhizal respiration components to total soil CO2 efflux, and determine their environmental correlates. Total soil CO2 efflux was measured regularly from April 2006 to December 2008 and found to average 4.1 Mg C ha-1 yr-1 in both 2007 and 2008. In addition, we applied a recently developed approach to partition the efflux into SOM, root-and-rhizosphere, and mycorrhizal components in situ using mesh bags. SOM decomposition, root-and-rhizosphere, and mycorrhizal respiration were estimated to contribute 70+or-6%, 22+or-6% and 8+or-3% of total soil CO2 efflux respectively, equating to 3.0+or-0.3, 0.9+or-0.2 and 0.3+or-0.1 Mg C ha-1 yr-1. In order to avoid the effect of temporal correlation between variables caused by seasonality, we investigated interannual variability by examining the relationship between CO2 flux anomalies and anomalies in environmental variables. Variation in soil temperature explained 50% of the interannual variance in soil CO2 efflux, and soil moisture a further 18% of the residual variance. Solar radiation, as a proxy for plant photosynthesis, had no significant effect on total soil CO2 efflux, but was positively correlated with root-and-rhizosphere respiration, and mycorrhizal respiration. The relationship between anomalies in soil CO2 efflux and soil temperature was highly significant, with a sensitivity of 0.164+or-0.023 micro mol CO2 m-2 s-1 degrees C-1. For mean peak summer efflux rates (2.03 micro mol CO2 m2 s-1), this is equivalent to 8% per degrees C, or a Q10 temperature sensitivity of 2.2+or-0.2. We demonstrate the utility of an anomaly analysis approach and conclude that soil temperature is the key driver of total soil CO2 efflux primarily through its positive relationship with SOM-decomposition rate.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.76934516154985,-1.3293885602111448	2006	2008	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Not Reported		Not Reported	Not Reported	Yes
Macdonald_2010	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C., Buesching, C.D., Nouvellet, P. (2010). Are badgers 'Under The Weather'? Direct and indirect impacts of climate variation on European badger (Meles meles) population dynamics. GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY, 16(11) 2913-2922. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2486.2010.02208.x	2010	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C., Buesching, C.D., Nouvellet, P.	Are badgers 'Under The Weather'? Direct and indirect impacts of climate variation on European badger (Meles meles) population dynamics	Global Change Biology				doi:10.1111/j.1365-2486.2010.02208.x	1354-1013 1365-2486		16	11	2913-2922	Weather conditions, and how they in turn define and characterize regional climatic conditions, are a primary limit on global species diversity and distribution, and increasing variability in global and regional climates have significant implications for species and habitat conservation. A Capture-Mark-Recapture study revealed that badger (Meles meles) life history parameters interact in complicated ways with annual variability in the seasonality of temperature and rainfall, both in absolute and in phenological terms. A strong predictive relationship was observed between survival and both temperature and late-summer rainfall. This link at the population dynamics level was related to individual body-weight increases observed between summer and autumn. In addition, fecundity was correlated with spring rainfall and temperature. We investigated and confirmed that relationships were consistent with observed variation in the intensity of a parasitic infection. Finally, fecundity during any given year correlated with conditions in the preceding autumn. Badger survival also correlated with late winter weather conditions. This period is critical for badgers insofar as it coincides with their peak involvement in road traffic accidents (RTAs). RTA rate during this period was linked strongly to temperature, underlining the intricate ways in which a changing climate might interact with anthropogenic agents to influence species' population processes. Equinoctial conditions produced significant population driver effects. That is, while summers will always be relatively warm compared with winters, spring and autumn weather can be more variable and functionally delimit the 'productive' vs. nonproductive period of the year in terms of badger behavioural and physiological cycles. This study highlights how appropriately informed conservation strategies, mindful of trends in climatic conditions, will become ever-more essential to ensure the survival of many species globally.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1994	1997	Spring;Summer	Mammals	Meles meles	Population Density	Yes	No
Smith_2010	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Smith, H., Feber, R.E., Morecroft, M.D., Taylor, M.E, Macdonald, D.W. (2010). Short-term successional change does not predict long-term conservation value of managed arable field margins. Biological Conservation, 143(3) 813-822. 10.1016/j.biocon.2009.12.025	2010	Smith, H., Feber, R.E., Morecroft, M.D., Taylor, M.E, Macdonald, D.W.	Short-term successional change does not predict long-term conservation value of managed arable field margins	Biological Conservation				10.1016/j.biocon.2009.12.025	0006-3207		143	3	813-822	Field margins have been widely advocated as a means of integrating agronomic and biodiversity objectives and are included in agri-environment schemes across Europe. However, information on the long-term development of field margin plant communities remains limited. We describe a long-term experiment on the effects of field margin management on biodiversity and weed species. Swards were established by natural regeneration or sowing a grass and wildflower seed mixture, and treatments manipulated the frequency and timing of mowing, application of herbicide and leaving of hay. Vegetation was monitored to evaluate the extent to which early conclusions remained valid after 13 years. Although early successional trends suggested that naturally regenerated swards would rapidly become dominated by pernicious perennial weeds, and that sown swards would exclude such species, neither was true in the longer term. Sown swards were eventually invaded by unsown perennials, but they remained distinct from naturally regenerated swards. Plant species richness declined throughout the experiment. Annuals were lost most rapidly from sown swards but, under natural regeneration, loss could be modified by mowing. Perennial species initially increased during natural regeneration before stabilising. In sown swards they declined under all treatments. Species richness in naturally regenerating swards was promoted initially by mowing twice annually. After 13 years, timing and frequency of mowing had no significant effect on species richness although it still influenced sward composition. Leaving cut hay lying produced species-poor swards. We conclude that the choice of establishment and management methods for arable field margins significantly affects the long-term conservation value of the swards. © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.7693916367114,-1.329313458356585	1987	2000	All Year	Vascular plants	Bromus hordeaceus;Elymus repens;Dactylis glomerata;Holcus lanatus;Poa trivialis;Convolvulus arvensis;Geranium dissectum;Urtica dioica;Festuca rubra;Lolium perenne;Agrostis stolonifera;Ranunculus repens;Poa trivialis	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Macdonald_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C., Nouvellet, P., Buesching, C.D. (2009). AN ANALYSIS OF EURASIAN BADGER (MELES MELES) POPULATION DYNAMICS: IMPLICATIONS FOR REGULATORY MECHANISMS. JOURNAL OF MAMMALOGY, 90(6) 1392-1403. doi:10.1644/08-MAMM-A-356R1.1	2009	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C., Nouvellet, P., Buesching, C.D.	AN ANALYSIS OF EURASIAN BADGER (MELES MELES) POPULATION DYNAMICS: IMPLICATIONS FOR REGULATORY MECHANISMS	Journal of Mammalogy				doi:10.1644/08-MAMM-A-356R1.1	0022-2372 1545-1542		90	6	1392-1403	Based on 15 years of observations of a badger (Meles meles) population at Wytham Woods in the central United Kingdom, we investigated which parameters governed demographic changes, using data recording the life histories of 868 individuals. We modeled the population in terms of a stage-classified matrix, giving an exponential population growth rate of r = 0.063 (lambda = 1.065). Population elasticity values, derived from this matrix, produced a relative order of importance of regulatory parameters governing this population growth rate, of: adult survival (P-a) > fertility (F) > juvenile survival (P-j) > age at 1st reproduction (alpha) > age at last reproduction (omega). Thus, changes in P-a and F have the greatest potential to influence population growth rate. The population underwent a dramatic change in the last 5 years of the study, with a decline, then stabilization in population growth. However, this change was not related to any change in elasticity patterns between the 2 periods. Comparing the latter period to the preceding period of marked population growth revealed that fertility rate had little actual influence, whereas adult and juvenile survival rates were far more influential demographic variables. These findings prompted a 2nd, retrospective, analytical approach, a life-table response experiment (LTRE), revealing that the importance of P-j in the LTRE contrasted with its lesser prospective importance in the elasticity analysis. Change in fertility (Delta F) apparently had little environmental or genetic scope (according to the results of either technique) to influence regulation in this population. We also tested for delayed density dependence using the theta logistic model. Because territorial animals are expected to respond quickly to the effects of density dependence, corresponding to theta < 1, our rejection of this hypothesis indicated that the restrictions of territorial sociospatial regulation are relaxed in this badger population. These results are used to highlight population vulnerabilities.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1987	2001	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Population Density	Yes	No
Morecroft_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H. (2009). The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment. Biological Conservation, 142(12) 2814-2832. 10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	2009	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H.	The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment	Biological Conservation				10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	0006-3207		142	12	2814-2832	This review identifies the major trends in physical, chemical and biological data between 1993 and 2007 at the 12 terrestrial sites in the United Kingdom Environmental Change Network (ECN) and assesses the effectiveness of the programme. Temperature and precipitation increased and sulphur (S) deposition decreased across the network. There were also significant local trends in nitrogen (N) deposition. The decreasing S deposition was associated with increasing pH of rainfall and soils and there was widespread evidence of soil pH showing recovery from acidification. Warm-adapted butterfly species tended to increase at northern, upland sites, consistent with an effect of increasing temperatures. In contrast, carabid beetle species associated with cooler northern and upland areas showed declining populations. The increasing trend in precipitation may account for a decline in ruderal plant species in the lowlands, reversing an increase associated with drought in the early part of the time series. There was no general shift in the composition of plant communities which might reflect rising soil pH. This may reflect the slow dynamics of plant community processes or a distinction between pH trends at the surface and lower soil horizons. The ECN is effective in detecting trends in a range of different variables at contrasting sites. Its strength is the ability to monitor causes and consequences of environmental change in the same programme, improving the ability to attribute causes of change, which is essential to developing conservation policy and management in the 21st century. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2007	Not Reported	Amphibians	Lepidoptera;Carabidae;Chiroptera;	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Morecroft_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H. (2009). The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment. Biological Conservation, 142(12) 2814-2832. 10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	2009	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H.	The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment	Biological Conservation				10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	0006-3207		142	12	2814-2832	This review identifies the major trends in physical, chemical and biological data between 1993 and 2007 at the 12 terrestrial sites in the United Kingdom Environmental Change Network (ECN) and assesses the effectiveness of the programme. Temperature and precipitation increased and sulphur (S) deposition decreased across the network. There were also significant local trends in nitrogen (N) deposition. The decreasing S deposition was associated with increasing pH of rainfall and soils and there was widespread evidence of soil pH showing recovery from acidification. Warm-adapted butterfly species tended to increase at northern, upland sites, consistent with an effect of increasing temperatures. In contrast, carabid beetle species associated with cooler northern and upland areas showed declining populations. The increasing trend in precipitation may account for a decline in ruderal plant species in the lowlands, reversing an increase associated with drought in the early part of the time series. There was no general shift in the composition of plant communities which might reflect rising soil pH. This may reflect the slow dynamics of plant community processes or a distinction between pH trends at the surface and lower soil horizons. The ECN is effective in detecting trends in a range of different variables at contrasting sites. Its strength is the ability to monitor causes and consequences of environmental change in the same programme, improving the ability to attribute causes of change, which is essential to developing conservation policy and management in the 21st century. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2007	Not Reported	Birds	Lepidoptera;Carabidae;Chiroptera;	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Morecroft_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H. (2009). The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment. Biological Conservation, 142(12) 2814-2832. 10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	2009	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H.	The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment	Biological Conservation				10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	0006-3207		142	12	2814-2832	This review identifies the major trends in physical, chemical and biological data between 1993 and 2007 at the 12 terrestrial sites in the United Kingdom Environmental Change Network (ECN) and assesses the effectiveness of the programme. Temperature and precipitation increased and sulphur (S) deposition decreased across the network. There were also significant local trends in nitrogen (N) deposition. The decreasing S deposition was associated with increasing pH of rainfall and soils and there was widespread evidence of soil pH showing recovery from acidification. Warm-adapted butterfly species tended to increase at northern, upland sites, consistent with an effect of increasing temperatures. In contrast, carabid beetle species associated with cooler northern and upland areas showed declining populations. The increasing trend in precipitation may account for a decline in ruderal plant species in the lowlands, reversing an increase associated with drought in the early part of the time series. There was no general shift in the composition of plant communities which might reflect rising soil pH. This may reflect the slow dynamics of plant community processes or a distinction between pH trends at the surface and lower soil horizons. The ECN is effective in detecting trends in a range of different variables at contrasting sites. Its strength is the ability to monitor causes and consequences of environmental change in the same programme, improving the ability to attribute causes of change, which is essential to developing conservation policy and management in the 21st century. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2007	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera;Carabidae;Chiroptera;	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Morecroft_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H. (2009). The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment. Biological Conservation, 142(12) 2814-2832. 10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	2009	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H.	The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment	Biological Conservation				10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	0006-3207		142	12	2814-2832	This review identifies the major trends in physical, chemical and biological data between 1993 and 2007 at the 12 terrestrial sites in the United Kingdom Environmental Change Network (ECN) and assesses the effectiveness of the programme. Temperature and precipitation increased and sulphur (S) deposition decreased across the network. There were also significant local trends in nitrogen (N) deposition. The decreasing S deposition was associated with increasing pH of rainfall and soils and there was widespread evidence of soil pH showing recovery from acidification. Warm-adapted butterfly species tended to increase at northern, upland sites, consistent with an effect of increasing temperatures. In contrast, carabid beetle species associated with cooler northern and upland areas showed declining populations. The increasing trend in precipitation may account for a decline in ruderal plant species in the lowlands, reversing an increase associated with drought in the early part of the time series. There was no general shift in the composition of plant communities which might reflect rising soil pH. This may reflect the slow dynamics of plant community processes or a distinction between pH trends at the surface and lower soil horizons. The ECN is effective in detecting trends in a range of different variables at contrasting sites. Its strength is the ability to monitor causes and consequences of environmental change in the same programme, improving the ability to attribute causes of change, which is essential to developing conservation policy and management in the 21st century. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2007	Not Reported	Mammals	Lepidoptera;Carabidae;Chiroptera;	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Morecroft_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H. (2009). The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment. Biological Conservation, 142(12) 2814-2832. 10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	2009	Morecroft, M.D., Bealey, C.E., Beaumont, D.A., Benham, S., Brooks, D.R., Burt, T.P., Critchley, C.N.R., Dick, J., Littlewood, N.A., Monteith, D.T., Scott, W.A., Smith, R.I., Walmsley, C., Watson, H.	The UK Environmental Change Network: Emerging trends in the composition of plant and animal communities and the physical environment	Biological Conservation				10.1016/j.biocon.2009.07.004	0006-3207		142	12	2814-2832	This review identifies the major trends in physical, chemical and biological data between 1993 and 2007 at the 12 terrestrial sites in the United Kingdom Environmental Change Network (ECN) and assesses the effectiveness of the programme. Temperature and precipitation increased and sulphur (S) deposition decreased across the network. There were also significant local trends in nitrogen (N) deposition. The decreasing S deposition was associated with increasing pH of rainfall and soils and there was widespread evidence of soil pH showing recovery from acidification. Warm-adapted butterfly species tended to increase at northern, upland sites, consistent with an effect of increasing temperatures. In contrast, carabid beetle species associated with cooler northern and upland areas showed declining populations. The increasing trend in precipitation may account for a decline in ruderal plant species in the lowlands, reversing an increase associated with drought in the early part of the time series. There was no general shift in the composition of plant communities which might reflect rising soil pH. This may reflect the slow dynamics of plant community processes or a distinction between pH trends at the surface and lower soil horizons. The ECN is effective in detecting trends in a range of different variables at contrasting sites. Its strength is the ability to monitor causes and consequences of environmental change in the same programme, improving the ability to attribute causes of change, which is essential to developing conservation policy and management in the 21st century. © 2009 Elsevier Ltd.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2007	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Lepidoptera;Carabidae;Chiroptera;	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Taylor_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Taylor, M.E, Morecroft, M.D. (2009). Effects of agri-environment schemes in a long-term ecological time series. AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT, 130(1) 9-15. doi:10.1016/j.agee.2008.11.004	2009	Taylor, M.E, Morecroft, M.D.	Effects of agri-environment schemes in a long-term ecological time series	Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment				doi:10.1016/j.agee.2008.11.004	0167-8809 1873-2305		130	1	9-15	We investigated the impact of agri-environment schemes, including organic farming, oil contrasting taxa, when the management of a Southern English farm was changed in the middle of a 12-year time series for an ecosystem-monitoring programme. Plant species richness, including butterfly larval food plants, increased, whilst grassland productivity decreased. There was no overall difference in butterfly or carabid beetle abundance or species richness after the management changes, but some individual species increased significantly. Moth abundance and species richness significantly increased following changes in management. There were significant longer term increases in butterfly and carabid populations from when monitoring started in 1994, which continued through the change in management. This contrasted with national trends over the same period. Warmer summers generally increased invertebrate abundance, but there was no significant trend in weather variables for the years following the change in management. This study corroborates results from short-term comparison of contrasting farms and demonstrates measurable benefits to biodiversity from the implementation of agri-environment schemes, which continue to increase over at least 5 years. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Farmland		51.68378741113486,-1.3332647130597128	1994	2006	Spring;Summer	Insects	Festuca pratensisa;Arrhenatherum elatius;Holcus lanatus;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Cynosurus cristatusa;Poa trivialisa;Dactylis glomerata;Lolium perenne;Poa annua;Elytrigia repens;Trifolium repens;Medicago lupulina;Hedera helix;Cirsium arvense;Sisymbrium officinale;Trifolium pratense;Brassica napus;Humulus lupulus;Thlaspi arvense;Lotus corniculatus;Ribes uva-crispa;Cardamine pratensis;Cirsium vulgare;Urtica dioica;Alliaria petiolata;Capsella bursa-pastoris;Aphantopus hyperantus;Aricia agestis;Lycaena phlaeas;Maniola jurtina;Melanargia galathea;Pieris brassicae;Pieris napi;Polygonia c-album;Polyommatus icarus;Vanessa atalanta;Omphaloscelis lunosa;Pipistrellus;Myotis daubentonii	Abundance	Yes	No
Taylor_2009	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Taylor, M.E, Morecroft, M.D. (2009). Effects of agri-environment schemes in a long-term ecological time series. AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT, 130(1) 9-15. doi:10.1016/j.agee.2008.11.004	2009	Taylor, M.E, Morecroft, M.D.	Effects of agri-environment schemes in a long-term ecological time series	Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment				doi:10.1016/j.agee.2008.11.004	0167-8809 1873-2305		130	1	9-15	We investigated the impact of agri-environment schemes, including organic farming, oil contrasting taxa, when the management of a Southern English farm was changed in the middle of a 12-year time series for an ecosystem-monitoring programme. Plant species richness, including butterfly larval food plants, increased, whilst grassland productivity decreased. There was no overall difference in butterfly or carabid beetle abundance or species richness after the management changes, but some individual species increased significantly. Moth abundance and species richness significantly increased following changes in management. There were significant longer term increases in butterfly and carabid populations from when monitoring started in 1994, which continued through the change in management. This contrasted with national trends over the same period. Warmer summers generally increased invertebrate abundance, but there was no significant trend in weather variables for the years following the change in management. This study corroborates results from short-term comparison of contrasting farms and demonstrates measurable benefits to biodiversity from the implementation of agri-environment schemes, which continue to increase over at least 5 years. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Farmland		51.68378741113486,-1.3332647130597128	1994	2006	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Festuca pratensisa;Arrhenatherum elatius;Holcus lanatus;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Cynosurus cristatusa;Poa trivialisa;Dactylis glomerata;Lolium perenne;Poa annua;Elytrigia repens;Trifolium repens;Medicago lupulina;Hedera helix;Cirsium arvense;Sisymbrium officinale;Trifolium pratense;Brassica napus;Humulus lupulus;Thlaspi arvense;Lotus corniculatus;Ribes uva-crispa;Cardamine pratensis;Cirsium vulgare;Urtica dioica;Alliaria petiolata;Capsella bursa-pastoris;Aphantopus hyperantus;Aricia agestis;Lycaena phlaeas;Maniola jurtina;Melanargia galathea;Pieris brassicae;Pieris napi;Polygonia c-album;Polyommatus icarus;Vanessa atalanta;Omphaloscelis lunosa;Pipistrellus;Myotis daubentonii	Abundance	Yes	No
Hinsley_2007	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hinsley, S.A., Carpenter, J.E., Broughton, R.K., Bellamy, P.E., Rothery, P., Amar, A., Hewson, C.M., Gosler, A.G. (2007). Habitat selection by Marsh Tits Poecile palustris in the UK. Ibis (London), 149(224-233. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2007.00691.x	2007	Hinsley, S.A., Carpenter, J.E., Broughton, R.K., Bellamy, P.E., Rothery, P., Amar, A., Hewson, C.M., Gosler, A.G.	Habitat selection by Marsh Tits Poecile palustris in the UK	Ibis				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2007.00691.x	0019-1019	http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/ibi	149		224-233	The Marsh Tit Poecile palustris is a small, hole-nesting woodland passerine whose national population in the UK has declined by more than 50% in the last 25 years. To investigate possible causes for the species long-term decline, we examined habitat selection by Marsh Tits at three scales. For individual foraging birds, winter time budgets and foraging behaviour, recorded using instantaneous sampling, differed little between Marsh and Blue Tits Cyanistes caeruleus, but Marsh Tits spent more time in the understorey and more time lower down in both the woodland canopy and the understorey. At the scale of breeding territories, the characteristics (numbers by size class, vegetation density, species richness) of trees and shrubs were compared using 100x10-m sample transects of ten territories in each of four woods. The characteristics of the trees differed significantly between woods whilst those of the shrubs did not, suggesting that the characteristics of shrubs were more important in territory selection by Marsh Tits than were those of trees. Furthermore, in one of the four woods (Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire), Marsh Tits were largely absent from areas with dense tree canopy, but poor shrub cover. On a national scale, using data from 157 of the woodlands surveyed by the RSPB/BTO Repeat Woodland Bird Survey, Marsh Tit abundance in 2003/04 was found to be positively related to vegetation cover at heights corresponding to the shrub layer, especially at 2-4 m. These relationships were not apparent in data for the same woods for the 1980s, but shrub cover had increased substantially by 2003/04 and Marsh Tit abundance had increased in woods with the most cover in 2003/04. Thus, factors damaging the shrub layer, such as overgrazing by deer, shading out by canopy closure and managed clearance of shrub cover, may reduce the suitability of woodland for Marsh Tits. Habitat use by a closely related species, Willow Tit Poecile montanus, is also discussed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	2004	2005	Spring;Summer	Birds	Poecile palustris	Abundance	Yes	No
Hinsley_2007	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hinsley, S.A., Carpenter, J.E., Broughton, R.K., Bellamy, P.E., Rothery, P., Amar, A., Hewson, C.M., Gosler, A.G. (2007). Habitat selection by Marsh Tits Poecile palustris in the UK. Ibis (London), 149(224-233. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2007.00691.x	2007	Hinsley, S.A., Carpenter, J.E., Broughton, R.K., Bellamy, P.E., Rothery, P., Amar, A., Hewson, C.M., Gosler, A.G.	Habitat selection by Marsh Tits Poecile palustris in the UK	Ibis				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919X.2007.00691.x	0019-1019	http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/loi/ibi	149		224-233	The Marsh Tit Poecile palustris is a small, hole-nesting woodland passerine whose national population in the UK has declined by more than 50% in the last 25 years. To investigate possible causes for the species long-term decline, we examined habitat selection by Marsh Tits at three scales. For individual foraging birds, winter time budgets and foraging behaviour, recorded using instantaneous sampling, differed little between Marsh and Blue Tits Cyanistes caeruleus, but Marsh Tits spent more time in the understorey and more time lower down in both the woodland canopy and the understorey. At the scale of breeding territories, the characteristics (numbers by size class, vegetation density, species richness) of trees and shrubs were compared using 100x10-m sample transects of ten territories in each of four woods. The characteristics of the trees differed significantly between woods whilst those of the shrubs did not, suggesting that the characteristics of shrubs were more important in territory selection by Marsh Tits than were those of trees. Furthermore, in one of the four woods (Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire), Marsh Tits were largely absent from areas with dense tree canopy, but poor shrub cover. On a national scale, using data from 157 of the woodlands surveyed by the RSPB/BTO Repeat Woodland Bird Survey, Marsh Tit abundance in 2003/04 was found to be positively related to vegetation cover at heights corresponding to the shrub layer, especially at 2-4 m. These relationships were not apparent in data for the same woods for the 1980s, but shrub cover had increased substantially by 2003/04 and Marsh Tit abundance had increased in woods with the most cover in 2003/04. Thus, factors damaging the shrub layer, such as overgrazing by deer, shading out by canopy closure and managed clearance of shrub cover, may reduce the suitability of woodland for Marsh Tits. Habitat use by a closely related species, Willow Tit Poecile montanus, is also discussed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	2004	2005	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Poecile palustris	Abundance	Yes	No
Kirby_2021	External	Journal Article	Kirby, K.J. (2021). Five decades of ground flora change. Oxford Plant Systematics, 27(45145. 	2021	Kirby, K.J.	Five decades of ground flora change	Oxford Plant Systematics							27		07/08/2023	A summary of 50 years' information from the Dawkin's plots estabblished 1973-1976.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1973	2018	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Brachypodium sylvaticum; Cephalanthera damasonium ;Circaea lutetiana ; Deschampsia cespitosa;Epipactis ;Epipactis spp; Galium aparine  ; Geum urbanum ;Glechoma hederacea ;Hedera helix ; Hyacinthoides nonscripta ;Hypopitys monotropa ; Mercurialis perennis ;Paris quadrifolia  ; Poa trivialis ;Pteriidum aquilinum ;Rubus fruticosus;Urtica dioica ;	Other	Yes	No
Kirby_2000	Solo (Digital)	Report	Kirby, K.J., Morecroft, M.D. (2000). Long-term studies in British woodland. English Nature Science, 34. 129-pp. 	2000	Kirby, K.J., Morecroft, M.D.	Long-term studies in British woodland	English Nature Science					1-85716-507-1 (hardback)			34	129-pp	The papers in this volume were presented at the British Ecological Society symposium held in the Oxford Forestry Institute on 13 July 1999. The aim was to bring together examples of different types of long-term monitoring in the UK. The papers (14) and posters/short papers (3) explore changes in British woods over periods ranging from 5 to 50 years in trees and shrubs, ground flora, invertebrates and birds. The work described deals both with natural processes such as stand dynamics, population cycles, phenology and interactions of plant host and invertebrates; and with human-induced effects - woodland management, air pollution and climatic change. As important as the results of the studies themselves, are the common threads that emerge with respect to the establishment and maintenance of long-term studies, the archiving and publishing of results, and the tension between trying to design systems are simple and might be useful to future researchers. The papers are: The human element in long term woodland studies; Long-term stand change in a near-natural oakwood on Clairinsh Island, Scotland (Mountford, E. P.); Long term structure and vegetation changes in a native pinewood reserve in northern Scotland (Edwards, C.; Mason, W. L.); A century of vegetation change at Broadbalk Wilderness, Hertfordshire (Kerr, G.; Harmer, R.; Moss, S. R.); The colonisation of ground flora species within a 38 year old self-sown woodland (Walker, K.; Sparks, T.); The effect of shade and weather on wild daffodils in West Dean Woods, West Sussex (Hopkins, B.); A comparison of the structure and composition of the Warburg Reserve, Oxfordshire, between 1973 and 1992 (Kirby, K. J.; Thomas, R. C.); Long term monitoring of great spotted woodpeckers and dead wood in southern England (Smith, K. W.); Monitoring the endangered moth Eustroma reticulatum and its foodplant Impatiens noli-tangere in Lake District woodland (Hatcher, P. E.; Hooson, J.); Restoration of wood-pasture in Burnham Beeches, Buckinghamshire: some preliminary results for plants and ground running invertebrates (Read, H. J.); Surface active arthropods in a chronosequence of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) in the New Forest (Collins, T.); Two decades of data on oak defoliation in a Worcestershire woodland NNR (Harding, D.); The long-term phenology of woodland species in Britain (Sparks, T.); A monitoring programme to assess changes in the balance between spring vernals and warmth-demanding species in the ground flora of a Sussex wood (Pilkington, M. C.); Long-term monitoring of the health of beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) trees of all ages in Surrey (Stribley, G. H.); Quantitative changes in twig growth pattern of young woodland beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) in relation to climate and air pollution over 10 years in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire (Stribley, G. H.; Ashmore, M. R.); and Linking climate and biological monitoring: the effects of drought at Wytham Woods (Morecroft, M. D.). [Morecroft is recorded separately in the evidence base]	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1996	1999	Not Reported	Insects		Other	No	No
Kirby_2000	Solo (Digital)	Report	Kirby, K.J., Morecroft, M.D. (2000). Long-term studies in British woodland. English Nature Science, 34. 129-pp. 	2000	Kirby, K.J., Morecroft, M.D.	Long-term studies in British woodland	English Nature Science					1-85716-507-1 (hardback)			34	129-pp	The papers in this volume were presented at the British Ecological Society symposium held in the Oxford Forestry Institute on 13 July 1999. The aim was to bring together examples of different types of long-term monitoring in the UK. The papers (14) and posters/short papers (3) explore changes in British woods over periods ranging from 5 to 50 years in trees and shrubs, ground flora, invertebrates and birds. The work described deals both with natural processes such as stand dynamics, population cycles, phenology and interactions of plant host and invertebrates; and with human-induced effects - woodland management, air pollution and climatic change. As important as the results of the studies themselves, are the common threads that emerge with respect to the establishment and maintenance of long-term studies, the archiving and publishing of results, and the tension between trying to design systems are simple and might be useful to future researchers. The papers are: The human element in long term woodland studies; Long-term stand change in a near-natural oakwood on Clairinsh Island, Scotland (Mountford, E. P.); Long term structure and vegetation changes in a native pinewood reserve in northern Scotland (Edwards, C.; Mason, W. L.); A century of vegetation change at Broadbalk Wilderness, Hertfordshire (Kerr, G.; Harmer, R.; Moss, S. R.); The colonisation of ground flora species within a 38 year old self-sown woodland (Walker, K.; Sparks, T.); The effect of shade and weather on wild daffodils in West Dean Woods, West Sussex (Hopkins, B.); A comparison of the structure and composition of the Warburg Reserve, Oxfordshire, between 1973 and 1992 (Kirby, K. J.; Thomas, R. C.); Long term monitoring of great spotted woodpeckers and dead wood in southern England (Smith, K. W.); Monitoring the endangered moth Eustroma reticulatum and its foodplant Impatiens noli-tangere in Lake District woodland (Hatcher, P. E.; Hooson, J.); Restoration of wood-pasture in Burnham Beeches, Buckinghamshire: some preliminary results for plants and ground running invertebrates (Read, H. J.); Surface active arthropods in a chronosequence of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) in the New Forest (Collins, T.); Two decades of data on oak defoliation in a Worcestershire woodland NNR (Harding, D.); The long-term phenology of woodland species in Britain (Sparks, T.); A monitoring programme to assess changes in the balance between spring vernals and warmth-demanding species in the ground flora of a Sussex wood (Pilkington, M. C.); Long-term monitoring of the health of beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) trees of all ages in Surrey (Stribley, G. H.); Quantitative changes in twig growth pattern of young woodland beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) in relation to climate and air pollution over 10 years in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire (Stribley, G. H.; Ashmore, M. R.); and Linking climate and biological monitoring: the effects of drought at Wytham Woods (Morecroft, M. D.). [Morecroft is recorded separately in the evidence base]	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1996	1999	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Kirby_2005	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kirby, K.J., Smart S.M., Black H.I.J., Bunce R.G.H., Corney P.M., Smithers, R.J. (2005). Longterm ecological change in British woodland. English Nature Report, 653(1-137. 	2005	Kirby, K.J., Smart S.M., Black H.I.J., Bunce R.G.H., Corney P.M., Smithers, R.J.	Longterm ecological change in British woodland	English Nature Report							653		1-137		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	2001	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Richness	Yes	No
Kirby_1996	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C., Dawkins, H.C. (1996). Monitoring of changes in tree and shrub layers in Wytham Woods (Oxfordshire), 1974-1991. Forestry, 69(4) 319-334. 	1996	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C., Dawkins, H.C.	Monitoring of changes in tree and shrub layers in Wytham Woods (Oxfordshire), 1974-1991	Forestry							69	4	319-334	In 1974-76 164 permanent 10x10m plots were recorded at alternate intersections of a 100x100m grid in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Tree and shrub data were collected from all the plots in 1974-76, from 27 in 1984-85 and from all but one in 1991-92.  Changes in the structure and composition of the wood are assessed in terms of canopy cover, mean tree diameter, basal area and species occurrence.  The wood has become more open (reduced canopy cover) partly through management, partly natural processes such as windthrow and disease. The shrub cover has also declined greatly, probably because of increased deer browsing.  Most stands are predominantly young growth and for the wood as a whole mean tree  diameter, basal area and tree height have increased.  The overall composition of the wood has changed little, but there has been a significant decline in mean woody species number per plot from 5.8 to 4.1, mainly through declines in understorey species and young oak. Elm cover has been reduced by disease and birch also suffered preferentially from windthrow.   Variation in the composition of the plots was grouped into six broad classes using TWINSPAN analysis. These groupings in part reflect the differences in history and management of the woods which are a mixture of ancient and recent, semi-natural and planted stands.  The results are used to indicate gains and losses in nature conservation terms for the wood as a whole. The strengths and weaknesses of this system may hold lessons for future woodland monitoring exercises.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1992	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.77758558,-1.32748523	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.77155523,-1.340824969	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.77377794,-1.318840804	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.7666924,-1.336316989	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Kruuk_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H. (1978). SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 184(1-19. 	1978	Kruuk, H.	SPATIAL-ORGANIZATION AND TERRITORIAL BEHAVIOR OF EUROPEAN BADGER MELES-MELES	Journal of Zoology					0952-8369 1469-7998		184		1-19		Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Thorny Croft ;Brogden's Belt;Common Piece;Holly Hill Copse;The Mount (NE peninsular of Wytham Wood (unspecified));Radbrook Common;Nealings	Arable;Pasture;Woodland		51.76072708,-1.33345268	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	Yes	No
Larkin_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A. (1964). Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees. Oikos, 79-92. 	1964	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A.	Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees	Oikos					0030-1299				79-92		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1961	Autumn;Summer;Winter	Annelids	Metriocnemus;; Bimastus eiseni (Levinsen); Oniscus asellus L.; Porcellio scaber Latreille; Polyxenus lagurus (L.); Isobates varicornis (Koch); Proteroiulus fuscus (Am Stein); Lithobius forficatus (L.); L. variegatus Leach; L. melanops Newport;; Chernes cimicoides (Fab.); Oligolophus hanseni (Kraepelin); Megabunus diadema (Fab.);; Ciniflo fenestralis (Stroem); Lathys humilis (Blackwall); Segestria senoculata (L.); Clubiona corticalis (Walckenaer); Clubiona pallidula(Clerck); Clubiona brevipes Blackwall; Anyphaena accentuata (Walckenaer); Philodromus sp (imm); Amaurobius atropos (Walckenaer); ?Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall); Lepthyphantes minutus (Blackwall); Linyphia sp (imm);; Isotoma cinerea (Nicolet); I. westerlundi Reuter; Orchesella cincta (L.); Mydonius albocinctus (Templeton); Mustela nivalis (L.); Forficula auricularia L.; Ectopsocus briggsi (McLachlan); Elipsocus hyalinus (Stephens); Pseudopsocus rostocki Kolbe; Limothrips cerealium Haliday; Dendrothrips degeeri Uzel; Taeniothrips vulgatissimus (Haliday); Thrips fuscipennis Haliday; Thrips major Uzel; Hoplothrips pini (Haliday); Anthocoris confusus Reuter; A. nemorum (L.); Camptobrochis l; Micropterix sp.;Esperia sulphurella (Fab.); Depressaria sp.;Helophorus flavipes Fab.; Chaetocnema concinna (Marsham); Coeliodes dryados (Gmelin in L.); Phyllodrepa ioptera (Stephens); Coryphium angusticolle Stephens; Oxytelus rugosus (Fab.); Ischnoglossa prolixa (Gravenhorst); Bibloporus minutus Raffray; Phloiophilus edwardsii Stephens; Athous villosus (Geoffroy in Fourcroy); Soronia grisea (L.); Cryptarcha strigata (Fab.); Rhizophagus bipustulatus (Feb.); Pediacus dermestoides (Fab.); Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce; Atomaria sp; Lathridius nodifer Westwood; Enicmus minutus (L.); Corticaria crenicollis Mannerheim; Corticarina fuscula (Gyllenhal); Cerylon ferrugineum Stephens; Adalia decempunctata (L.); Calvia quattuordecimguttata (L.); Cis vestitus Mellié; Cis bilamellatus Fowler; Rhinosimus planirostris (Fab.); Anaspis sp.; Conopalpus testaceus (Olivier); Phyllotreta vittula Redtenbacher; Blacus trivialis Haliday; Asaphes vulgaris Walker; Cyrtogaster vulgaris Walker; Eulophus tidius Walker; Astichus arithmeticus (Förster); Vespula vulgaris (L.); Andrena sp; Anisopus punctatus (Fab.); Psychoda phalaenoides (L.); Mycomyia circumdata (Staeger); Polyporivora ornata (Meigen); Neoempheria lineola (Meigen); Sciophila lutea Macquart; Apoliphthisa subincana (Curtis); Phronia sp; Mycetophila pumila Winnertz; Sciara spp	Richness	No	No
Larkin_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A. (1964). Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees. Oikos, 79-92. 	1964	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A.	Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees	Oikos					0030-1299				79-92		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1961	Autumn;Summer;Winter	Arachnids	Metriocnemus;; Bimastus eiseni (Levinsen); Oniscus asellus L.; Porcellio scaber Latreille; Polyxenus lagurus (L.); Isobates varicornis (Koch); Proteroiulus fuscus (Am Stein); Lithobius forficatus (L.); L. variegatus Leach; L. melanops Newport;; Chernes cimicoides (Fab.); Oligolophus hanseni (Kraepelin); Megabunus diadema (Fab.);; Ciniflo fenestralis (Stroem); Lathys humilis (Blackwall); Segestria senoculata (L.); Clubiona corticalis (Walckenaer); Clubiona pallidula(Clerck); Clubiona brevipes Blackwall; Anyphaena accentuata (Walckenaer); Philodromus sp (imm); Amaurobius atropos (Walckenaer); ?Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall); Lepthyphantes minutus (Blackwall); Linyphia sp (imm);; Isotoma cinerea (Nicolet); I. westerlundi Reuter; Orchesella cincta (L.); Mydonius albocinctus (Templeton); Mustela nivalis (L.); Forficula auricularia L.; Ectopsocus briggsi (McLachlan); Elipsocus hyalinus (Stephens); Pseudopsocus rostocki Kolbe; Limothrips cerealium Haliday; Dendrothrips degeeri Uzel; Taeniothrips vulgatissimus (Haliday); Thrips fuscipennis Haliday; Thrips major Uzel; Hoplothrips pini (Haliday); Anthocoris confusus Reuter; A. nemorum (L.); Camptobrochis l; Micropterix sp.;Esperia sulphurella (Fab.); Depressaria sp.;Helophorus flavipes Fab.; Chaetocnema concinna (Marsham); Coeliodes dryados (Gmelin in L.); Phyllodrepa ioptera (Stephens); Coryphium angusticolle Stephens; Oxytelus rugosus (Fab.); Ischnoglossa prolixa (Gravenhorst); Bibloporus minutus Raffray; Phloiophilus edwardsii Stephens; Athous villosus (Geoffroy in Fourcroy); Soronia grisea (L.); Cryptarcha strigata (Fab.); Rhizophagus bipustulatus (Feb.); Pediacus dermestoides (Fab.); Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce; Atomaria sp; Lathridius nodifer Westwood; Enicmus minutus (L.); Corticaria crenicollis Mannerheim; Corticarina fuscula (Gyllenhal); Cerylon ferrugineum Stephens; Adalia decempunctata (L.); Calvia quattuordecimguttata (L.); Cis vestitus Mellié; Cis bilamellatus Fowler; Rhinosimus planirostris (Fab.); Anaspis sp.; Conopalpus testaceus (Olivier); Phyllotreta vittula Redtenbacher; Blacus trivialis Haliday; Asaphes vulgaris Walker; Cyrtogaster vulgaris Walker; Eulophus tidius Walker; Astichus arithmeticus (Förster); Vespula vulgaris (L.); Andrena sp; Anisopus punctatus (Fab.); Psychoda phalaenoides (L.); Mycomyia circumdata (Staeger); Polyporivora ornata (Meigen); Neoempheria lineola (Meigen); Sciophila lutea Macquart; Apoliphthisa subincana (Curtis); Phronia sp; Mycetophila pumila Winnertz; Sciara spp	Richness	No	No
Larkin_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A. (1964). Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees. Oikos, 79-92. 	1964	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A.	Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees	Oikos					0030-1299				79-92		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1961	Autumn;Summer;Winter	Crustaceans	Metriocnemus;; Bimastus eiseni (Levinsen); Oniscus asellus L.; Porcellio scaber Latreille; Polyxenus lagurus (L.); Isobates varicornis (Koch); Proteroiulus fuscus (Am Stein); Lithobius forficatus (L.); L. variegatus Leach; L. melanops Newport;; Chernes cimicoides (Fab.); Oligolophus hanseni (Kraepelin); Megabunus diadema (Fab.);; Ciniflo fenestralis (Stroem); Lathys humilis (Blackwall); Segestria senoculata (L.); Clubiona corticalis (Walckenaer); Clubiona pallidula(Clerck); Clubiona brevipes Blackwall; Anyphaena accentuata (Walckenaer); Philodromus sp (imm); Amaurobius atropos (Walckenaer); ?Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall); Lepthyphantes minutus (Blackwall); Linyphia sp (imm);; Isotoma cinerea (Nicolet); I. westerlundi Reuter; Orchesella cincta (L.); Mydonius albocinctus (Templeton); Mustela nivalis (L.); Forficula auricularia L.; Ectopsocus briggsi (McLachlan); Elipsocus hyalinus (Stephens); Pseudopsocus rostocki Kolbe; Limothrips cerealium Haliday; Dendrothrips degeeri Uzel; Taeniothrips vulgatissimus (Haliday); Thrips fuscipennis Haliday; Thrips major Uzel; Hoplothrips pini (Haliday); Anthocoris confusus Reuter; A. nemorum (L.); Camptobrochis l; Micropterix sp.;Esperia sulphurella (Fab.); Depressaria sp.;Helophorus flavipes Fab.; Chaetocnema concinna (Marsham); Coeliodes dryados (Gmelin in L.); Phyllodrepa ioptera (Stephens); Coryphium angusticolle Stephens; Oxytelus rugosus (Fab.); Ischnoglossa prolixa (Gravenhorst); Bibloporus minutus Raffray; Phloiophilus edwardsii Stephens; Athous villosus (Geoffroy in Fourcroy); Soronia grisea (L.); Cryptarcha strigata (Fab.); Rhizophagus bipustulatus (Feb.); Pediacus dermestoides (Fab.); Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce; Atomaria sp; Lathridius nodifer Westwood; Enicmus minutus (L.); Corticaria crenicollis Mannerheim; Corticarina fuscula (Gyllenhal); Cerylon ferrugineum Stephens; Adalia decempunctata (L.); Calvia quattuordecimguttata (L.); Cis vestitus Mellié; Cis bilamellatus Fowler; Rhinosimus planirostris (Fab.); Anaspis sp.; Conopalpus testaceus (Olivier); Phyllotreta vittula Redtenbacher; Blacus trivialis Haliday; Asaphes vulgaris Walker; Cyrtogaster vulgaris Walker; Eulophus tidius Walker; Astichus arithmeticus (Förster); Vespula vulgaris (L.); Andrena sp; Anisopus punctatus (Fab.); Psychoda phalaenoides (L.); Mycomyia circumdata (Staeger); Polyporivora ornata (Meigen); Neoempheria lineola (Meigen); Sciophila lutea Macquart; Apoliphthisa subincana (Curtis); Phronia sp; Mycetophila pumila Winnertz; Sciara spp	Richness	No	No
Larkin_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A. (1964). Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees. Oikos, 79-92. 	1964	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A.	Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees	Oikos					0030-1299				79-92		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1961	Autumn;Summer;Winter	Entognatha	Metriocnemus;; Bimastus eiseni (Levinsen); Oniscus asellus L.; Porcellio scaber Latreille; Polyxenus lagurus (L.); Isobates varicornis (Koch); Proteroiulus fuscus (Am Stein); Lithobius forficatus (L.); L. variegatus Leach; L. melanops Newport;; Chernes cimicoides (Fab.); Oligolophus hanseni (Kraepelin); Megabunus diadema (Fab.);; Ciniflo fenestralis (Stroem); Lathys humilis (Blackwall); Segestria senoculata (L.); Clubiona corticalis (Walckenaer); Clubiona pallidula(Clerck); Clubiona brevipes Blackwall; Anyphaena accentuata (Walckenaer); Philodromus sp (imm); Amaurobius atropos (Walckenaer); ?Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall); Lepthyphantes minutus (Blackwall); Linyphia sp (imm);; Isotoma cinerea (Nicolet); I. westerlundi Reuter; Orchesella cincta (L.); Mydonius albocinctus (Templeton); Mustela nivalis (L.); Forficula auricularia L.; Ectopsocus briggsi (McLachlan); Elipsocus hyalinus (Stephens); Pseudopsocus rostocki Kolbe; Limothrips cerealium Haliday; Dendrothrips degeeri Uzel; Taeniothrips vulgatissimus (Haliday); Thrips fuscipennis Haliday; Thrips major Uzel; Hoplothrips pini (Haliday); Anthocoris confusus Reuter; A. nemorum (L.); Camptobrochis l; Micropterix sp.;Esperia sulphurella (Fab.); Depressaria sp.;Helophorus flavipes Fab.; Chaetocnema concinna (Marsham); Coeliodes dryados (Gmelin in L.); Phyllodrepa ioptera (Stephens); Coryphium angusticolle Stephens; Oxytelus rugosus (Fab.); Ischnoglossa prolixa (Gravenhorst); Bibloporus minutus Raffray; Phloiophilus edwardsii Stephens; Athous villosus (Geoffroy in Fourcroy); Soronia grisea (L.); Cryptarcha strigata (Fab.); Rhizophagus bipustulatus (Feb.); Pediacus dermestoides (Fab.); Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce; Atomaria sp; Lathridius nodifer Westwood; Enicmus minutus (L.); Corticaria crenicollis Mannerheim; Corticarina fuscula (Gyllenhal); Cerylon ferrugineum Stephens; Adalia decempunctata (L.); Calvia quattuordecimguttata (L.); Cis vestitus Mellié; Cis bilamellatus Fowler; Rhinosimus planirostris (Fab.); Anaspis sp.; Conopalpus testaceus (Olivier); Phyllotreta vittula Redtenbacher; Blacus trivialis Haliday; Asaphes vulgaris Walker; Cyrtogaster vulgaris Walker; Eulophus tidius Walker; Astichus arithmeticus (Förster); Vespula vulgaris (L.); Andrena sp; Anisopus punctatus (Fab.); Psychoda phalaenoides (L.); Mycomyia circumdata (Staeger); Polyporivora ornata (Meigen); Neoempheria lineola (Meigen); Sciophila lutea Macquart; Apoliphthisa subincana (Curtis); Phronia sp; Mycetophila pumila Winnertz; Sciara spp	Richness	No	No
Larkin_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A. (1964). Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees. Oikos, 79-92. 	1964	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A.	Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees	Oikos					0030-1299				79-92		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1961	Autumn;Summer;Winter	Insects	Metriocnemus;; Bimastus eiseni (Levinsen); Oniscus asellus L.; Porcellio scaber Latreille; Polyxenus lagurus (L.); Isobates varicornis (Koch); Proteroiulus fuscus (Am Stein); Lithobius forficatus (L.); L. variegatus Leach; L. melanops Newport;; Chernes cimicoides (Fab.); Oligolophus hanseni (Kraepelin); Megabunus diadema (Fab.);; Ciniflo fenestralis (Stroem); Lathys humilis (Blackwall); Segestria senoculata (L.); Clubiona corticalis (Walckenaer); Clubiona pallidula(Clerck); Clubiona brevipes Blackwall; Anyphaena accentuata (Walckenaer); Philodromus sp (imm); Amaurobius atropos (Walckenaer); ?Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall); Lepthyphantes minutus (Blackwall); Linyphia sp (imm);; Isotoma cinerea (Nicolet); I. westerlundi Reuter; Orchesella cincta (L.); Mydonius albocinctus (Templeton); Mustela nivalis (L.); Forficula auricularia L.; Ectopsocus briggsi (McLachlan); Elipsocus hyalinus (Stephens); Pseudopsocus rostocki Kolbe; Limothrips cerealium Haliday; Dendrothrips degeeri Uzel; Taeniothrips vulgatissimus (Haliday); Thrips fuscipennis Haliday; Thrips major Uzel; Hoplothrips pini (Haliday); Anthocoris confusus Reuter; A. nemorum (L.); Camptobrochis l; Micropterix sp.;Esperia sulphurella (Fab.); Depressaria sp.;Helophorus flavipes Fab.; Chaetocnema concinna (Marsham); Coeliodes dryados (Gmelin in L.); Phyllodrepa ioptera (Stephens); Coryphium angusticolle Stephens; Oxytelus rugosus (Fab.); Ischnoglossa prolixa (Gravenhorst); Bibloporus minutus Raffray; Phloiophilus edwardsii Stephens; Athous villosus (Geoffroy in Fourcroy); Soronia grisea (L.); Cryptarcha strigata (Fab.); Rhizophagus bipustulatus (Feb.); Pediacus dermestoides (Fab.); Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce; Atomaria sp; Lathridius nodifer Westwood; Enicmus minutus (L.); Corticaria crenicollis Mannerheim; Corticarina fuscula (Gyllenhal); Cerylon ferrugineum Stephens; Adalia decempunctata (L.); Calvia quattuordecimguttata (L.); Cis vestitus Mellié; Cis bilamellatus Fowler; Rhinosimus planirostris (Fab.); Anaspis sp.; Conopalpus testaceus (Olivier); Phyllotreta vittula Redtenbacher; Blacus trivialis Haliday; Asaphes vulgaris Walker; Cyrtogaster vulgaris Walker; Eulophus tidius Walker; Astichus arithmeticus (Förster); Vespula vulgaris (L.); Andrena sp; Anisopus punctatus (Fab.); Psychoda phalaenoides (L.); Mycomyia circumdata (Staeger); Polyporivora ornata (Meigen); Neoempheria lineola (Meigen); Sciophila lutea Macquart; Apoliphthisa subincana (Curtis); Phronia sp; Mycetophila pumila Winnertz; Sciara spp	Richness	No	No
Larkin_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A. (1964). Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees. Oikos, 79-92. 	1964	Larkin, P.A., Elbourn, C.A.	Some observations on the fauna of dead wood in live oak trees	Oikos					0030-1299				79-92		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1961	Autumn;Summer;Winter	Myriapods	Metriocnemus;; Bimastus eiseni (Levinsen); Oniscus asellus L.; Porcellio scaber Latreille; Polyxenus lagurus (L.); Isobates varicornis (Koch); Proteroiulus fuscus (Am Stein); Lithobius forficatus (L.); L. variegatus Leach; L. melanops Newport;; Chernes cimicoides (Fab.); Oligolophus hanseni (Kraepelin); Megabunus diadema (Fab.);; Ciniflo fenestralis (Stroem); Lathys humilis (Blackwall); Segestria senoculata (L.); Clubiona corticalis (Walckenaer); Clubiona pallidula(Clerck); Clubiona brevipes Blackwall; Anyphaena accentuata (Walckenaer); Philodromus sp (imm); Amaurobius atropos (Walckenaer); ?Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Bathyphantes gracilis (Blackwall); Lepthyphantes minutus (Blackwall); Linyphia sp (imm);; Isotoma cinerea (Nicolet); I. westerlundi Reuter; Orchesella cincta (L.); Mydonius albocinctus (Templeton); Mustela nivalis (L.); Forficula auricularia L.; Ectopsocus briggsi (McLachlan); Elipsocus hyalinus (Stephens); Pseudopsocus rostocki Kolbe; Limothrips cerealium Haliday; Dendrothrips degeeri Uzel; Taeniothrips vulgatissimus (Haliday); Thrips fuscipennis Haliday; Thrips major Uzel; Hoplothrips pini (Haliday); Anthocoris confusus Reuter; A. nemorum (L.); Camptobrochis l; Micropterix sp.;Esperia sulphurella (Fab.); Depressaria sp.;Helophorus flavipes Fab.; Chaetocnema concinna (Marsham); Coeliodes dryados (Gmelin in L.); Phyllodrepa ioptera (Stephens); Coryphium angusticolle Stephens; Oxytelus rugosus (Fab.); Ischnoglossa prolixa (Gravenhorst); Bibloporus minutus Raffray; Phloiophilus edwardsii Stephens; Athous villosus (Geoffroy in Fourcroy); Soronia grisea (L.); Cryptarcha strigata (Fab.); Rhizophagus bipustulatus (Feb.); Pediacus dermestoides (Fab.); Cryptophagus intermedius Bruce; Atomaria sp; Lathridius nodifer Westwood; Enicmus minutus (L.); Corticaria crenicollis Mannerheim; Corticarina fuscula (Gyllenhal); Cerylon ferrugineum Stephens; Adalia decempunctata (L.); Calvia quattuordecimguttata (L.); Cis vestitus Mellié; Cis bilamellatus Fowler; Rhinosimus planirostris (Fab.); Anaspis sp.; Conopalpus testaceus (Olivier); Phyllotreta vittula Redtenbacher; Blacus trivialis Haliday; Asaphes vulgaris Walker; Cyrtogaster vulgaris Walker; Eulophus tidius Walker; Astichus arithmeticus (Förster); Vespula vulgaris (L.); Andrena sp; Anisopus punctatus (Fab.); Psychoda phalaenoides (L.); Mycomyia circumdata (Staeger); Polyporivora ornata (Meigen); Neoempheria lineola (Meigen); Sciophila lutea Macquart; Apoliphthisa subincana (Curtis); Phronia sp; Mycetophila pumila Winnertz; Sciara spp	Richness	No	No
Kirby_2004	External	Book Section	Kirby, K.J. (2004). Changes in the composition of Wytham Woods (Southern England) 1974-2002, in stands of different origins and past treatment. IUFRO Research Series, vol. 10, 193-203. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1079/9780851998022.0193	2004	Kirby, K.J.	Changes in the composition of Wytham Woods (Southern England) 1974-2002, in stands of different origins and past treatment	Iufro Research Series, Vol. 10				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1079/9780851998022.0193	9780851998022 (hardback)	http://www.cabi.org/cabebooks/ebook/20043094057			193-203	A total of 163 permanent quadrats were recorded in 1974, 1991 and 2001 in Wytham Woods, a mixed, 320-ha woodland in Oxfordshire, southern England, UK. Data were collected on tree and shrub layers and ground flora changes. Many aspects of the woods have remained stable over the 27 years since the first recording: there has been little change in overall tree composition or in average ground flora richness. However, the shrub layer has declined; cover of Rubus fruticosus has declined, but that of Brachypodium sylvaticum has increased, probably because of increased deer browsing. Differences in the composition of ancient and recent semi-natural stands declined over the period: some ancient woodland species spread further into recent woodland (e.g. Carex pendula).	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768794 ,-1.3347866	1974	2001	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Carex sylvatica;Hyacinthoides non-scripta;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Tamus communis;Potentilla sterilis;Oxalis acetosella;Lysimachia nemorum;Ribes sylvestre;Holcus mollis;Bromopsis ramosa;Ajuga reptans;Dryopteris filix-mas;Lonicera periclymenum;Pteridium aquilinum;Cardamine flexuosa;Festuca gigantea;Geum urbanum;Glechoma hederacea;Lamiastrum galeobdolon;Primula vulgaris;Prunella vulgaris;Ranunculus repens;Rumex spp.;Veronica chamaedrys;Veronica montana;Viola riviniana;Rubus fruticosus;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Urtica dioica;Chamerion angustifolium	Abundance	Yes	No
Bell_2002	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Bell, J.R., Johnson, P.J., Hambler, C., Haughton, A.J., Smith, H., Feber, R.E., Tattersall, F.H., Hart, B.H., Manley, W., Macdonald, D.W. (2002). Manipulating the abundance of Lepthyphantes tenuis (Araneae: Linyphiidae) by field margin management. Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment, 93(1) 295-304. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0167-8809(01)00343-7	2002	Bell, J.R., Johnson, P.J., Hambler, C., Haughton, A.J., Smith, H., Feber, R.E., Tattersall, F.H., Hart, B.H., Manley, W., Macdonald, D.W.	Manipulating the abundance of Lepthyphantes tenuis (Araneae: Linyphiidae) by field margin management	Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0167-8809(01)00343-7	0167-8809		93	1	295-304	Populations of the linyphiid spider Lepthyphantes tenuis were sampled in field margins in May, July and September in 1990-1991 and 1995-1996. Field margins were subjected to 10 grassland management regimes, which included the effects of spraying the herbicide glyphosate, cutting, leaving vegetation in situ after the cut, sowing and a control. These treatments were randomised within six complete blocks at the University of Oxford's farm at Wytham. Cutting vegetation had an immediate effect on number of L. tenuis in both spring and summer. Cutting margins in summer had a more persistent effect on populations of L. tenuis than did cutting margins in spring. The effect of cutting was not mitigated by leaving cut vegetation in situ, but no cutting ensured higher number of L. tenuis in margins, an indication that height and structural complexity of grassland vegetation were important in determining population size. Significantly fewer spiders were found in July and September plots which had been sprayed with herbicide in late June/early July. However, spider numbers were not affected by glyphosate application when samples were taken nearly a year later. Sowing a wildflower seed mixture had no significant effects on number of this generalist predator although other invertebrate groups did benefit. Field margins provided an excellent source habitat for L. tenuis. Habitats that border crop fields acted as a refugia for many other beneficial invertebrates and should be retained as an important component of the agricultural landscape.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.783978 ,-1.3171674	1990	1996	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Arachnids	Lepthyphantes tenuis	Abundance	Yes	No
Macdonald_2002a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C. (2002). Population dynamics of badgers (Meles meles) in Oxfordshire, UK: numbers, density and cohort life histories, and a possible role of climate change in population growth. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 256(121-138. doi:10.1017/S0952836902000158	2002	Macdonald, D.W., Newman, C.	Population dynamics of badgers (Meles meles) in Oxfordshire, UK: numbers, density and cohort life histories, and a possible role of climate change in population growth	Journal of Zoology				doi:10.1017/S0952836902000158	0952-8369 1469-7998		256		121-138	Between 1987 and 1996 the numbers of badgers Meles meles in Wytham Woods rose from 60 to 228 adults. The area occupied by the population has not changed and thus density has also risen from 10 adult badgers/km(2) to 38/km(2). This rise parallels an increase in badger abundance seen across Britain in recent years. The hypothesis that this increase is either the consequence of improved badger protection or of changes in habitat can be rejected for this site. Instead, a link between increasing numbers and changing weather patterns, possibly resulting from climate change, is investigated. In particular, attention is drawn to a correlation between mild winters and heavier body weights of badgers in January. Furthermore socio-spatial restructuring within the population may be the mechanism that has permitted high density to be sustainable. The increase in badger numbers at Wytham has not affected population sex ratio, which has remained relatively constant at parity throughout the study.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1987	1996	All Year	Mammals	Meles meles	Population Density	Yes	No
Perkins_2002	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Perkins, A.J., Whittingham, M.J., Morris, A.J., Bradbury, R.B. (2002). Use of field margins by foraging yellowhammers Emberiza citrinella. AGRICULTURE ECOSYSTEMS & ENVIRONMENT, 93(1) 413-420. doi:10.1016/S0167-8809(01)00306-1	2002	Perkins, A.J., Whittingham, M.J., Morris, A.J., Bradbury, R.B.	Use of field margins by foraging yellowhammers Emberiza citrinella	Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment				doi:10.1016/S0167-8809(01)00306-1	0167-8809		93	1	413-420	Some agri-environment schemes promote the creation and management of a variety of non-crop habitats on farmland in the UK, yet there has been relatively little monitoring to assess how species, particularly birds, use these habitats. The present study deals with a declining UK farmland bird species, yellowhammer Emberiza citrinella, and considers to what extent grass margins of arable fields are used as a foraging habitat when feeding nestlings, Studies were carried out in lowland mixed farmland in southern England.Grass margins and other non-crop field boundary habitats, such as hedgerows and ditches, were selected relative to cropped areas by yellowhammers. No significant difference was found between use of cut and uncut grass margins. Studies have shown that grass margins support high densities of invertebrates and their provision at the edge of arable fields would benefit yellowhammers during the breeding season both as habitat for prey and as nesting habitat. During the breeding season from May to August, management should create cut and uncut grass margins in close proximity to each other. This could be achieved by cutting only the outer edge of the grass margin, maintaining cover next to the hedgerow. Cut areas would provide easier access to food resources for birds and prevent weed encroachment to the crop, whilst adjacent uncut areas would maintain invertebrate sources and provide nesting cover for yellowhammers. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable;Pasture		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1995	1999	Spring;Summer	Birds	Emberiza citrinella	Abundance	Yes	No
Flowerdew_2001	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Flowerdew, J.R., Ellwood, S.A. (2001). Impacts of woodland deer on small mammal ecology. Forestry (Oxford), 74(3) 277-287. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/74.3.277	2001	Flowerdew, J.R., Ellwood, S.A.	Impacts of woodland deer on small mammal ecology	Forestry				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/74.3.277	0015-752X		74	3	277-287	The possible impacts of increased deer populations on small mammal ecology in British lowland woodlands are reviewed. These impacts occur mainly through two pathways. First, by the modification or removal of habitat which influences food supply, cover and the balance of competition between the species. Secondly, through direct competition for resources, particularly food supplies. Losses of woodland ground vegetation may provoke major changes in small mammal community structure which, in the extreme, may decrease from five to eight species, or more, to just wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus). Reduction of understorey species such as hazelnuts (Corylus avellana) or loss of shrub diversity, would be expected to lead to declines in yellow-necked mice (Apodemus flavicollis) and common dormice (Muscardinus avellanarius). Reduction of early succession mixed scrub and grassland may reduce colonization by shrews, harvest mice (Micromys minutus) and field voles (Microtus agrestis), although in woodland rides, field voles may benefit from preferential grazing of grasses by deer. Impacts on regeneration which may delay or inhibit canopy/understorey closure may encourage the ground and shrub vegetation and so favour species with a preference for ground cover such as the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus). Reductions in the availability of foods (e.g. mast crops) may reduce the potential for high population densities, particularly of bank voles, wood mice and yellow-necked mice, decrease the lengths of breeding seasons, and further affect community structure. If rodent densities are lowered, avian and terrestrial predators are likely to suffer reduced breeding success and tawny owls (Strix aluco) may prey more heavily on bank voles if their favoured ground cover is reduced. Studies at Wytham Woods, near Oxford, from 1949 to 1999, indicate that a significant reduction in bank vole, but not wood mouse, numbers has occurred; this is suggested to be the result of observed changes in the woodland vegetation, including a significant reduction in the ground cover of bramble (Rubus fruticosus agg.). Deer, as well as increased canopy shading, are probably the major factors causing this change in habitat and small mammal density.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1960	1989	Not Reported	Mammals	Myodes glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
McDonald_2001	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	McDonald, A.W. (2001). Succession during the re-creation of a flood-meadow 1985-1999. Applied Vegetation Science, 4(2) 167-176. 10.1111/j.1654-109X.2001.tb00485.x	2001	McDonald, A.W.	Succession during the re-creation of a flood-meadow 1985-1999	Applied Vegetation Science				10.1111/j.1654-109X.2001.tb00485.x	1402-2001	https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1654-109X.2001.tb00485.x	4	2	167-176	The study site, Somerford Mead, is located on the river Thames floodplain and was a species-rich flood-meadow in the 1950s. In the 1960s and 1970s it was subjected to intensive grassland management with regular NPK additions and occasional herbicide treatment. In 1981 Somerford Mead was ploughed for the first time and converted to arable land. Seeds of an Alopecurus pratensis-Sanguisorba officinalis flood-meadow community (MG4; Rodwell 1992) were sown onto prepared soil in the autumn of 1986, and botanical records were made from 1985 to 1999. From 1989 to 1999, three replicates of three treatments: cow-grazing, sheep-grazing and no-grazing were introduced after hay-cutting. Analysis successfully separated the establishment phase from the experimental phase and showed a significant difference between the grazed and ungrazed treatments. Abiotic and biotic factors which might contribute to successional trends are discussed. A convoluted pattern for each treatment could be attributed in part to intrinsic 'cycles' of perennial hemicryptophytes behaving as short-lived species and in part to the percentage frequency of many species which was reduced in 1990 and 1995/1996, years of drought. After the initial inoculation of MG4 seed and the disappearance of arable therophytes, recruitment of new species was very slow. Coefficients for Somerford Mead matched against MG4 (Rodwell 1992) produced an equilibrium within three years. It subsequently fluctuated over a 10-yr period well below the level of Oxey Mead, the donor site. Land managers should ensure that their proposed site has the right soils and hydrology for MG4 grassland and that traditional management of hay-cutting and aftermath grazing is practised. Only one cut a year in July could lead to a reduction in percentage frequency of most species except Arrhenatherum elatius.	Wytham Estate	Somerford Mead	Grassland;Stream		51.784078 ,-1.3345619	1986	1999	Summer	Vascular plants	Arrhenatherum elatius;Alopecurus pratensis;Sanguisorba officinalis;Tripleurospermum inodorum;Stellaria media;Rumex;Cirsium;Brassica rapa;Matricaria perforata;Capsella bursapastoris;Hordeum vulgare;Agrostis stolonifera;Plantago major;Centaurea nigra;Potentilla reptans;Anthoxanthum odoratum;Rhinanthus minor;Agrostis capillaris;Leontodon hispidus;Tragopogon pratense;Briza media;Carex flacca;Lotus corniculatus;Ophioglossum vulgare;Vicia cracca;Lolium multiflorum;Papaver rhoeas;Chrysanthemum segetum;Centaurea cyanus;Senecio jacobaea;Bromus hordeaceus;Rumex acetosa;Poa trivialis;Lolium perenne;Trifolium pratense;Trifolium repens;Ranunculus acris;Holcus lanatus;Dactylis glomerata;Festuca rubra;Cirsium arvense;Cynosurus cristatus;Ranunculus bulbosus;Carex nigra;Carex panicea;Equisetum palustre;Hordeum secalinum;Ajuga reptans;Cardamine pratensis;Fritillaria meleagris;Galium palustre;Lysimachia nummularia;Silaum silaus;Succisa pratensis;Thalictrum flavum;Stachys betonica;Linum catharticum;Plantago media;Bromus erectus	Other	Yes	No
Morecroft_2001	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Taylor, M.E., Ellwood, S.A., Quinn, S.A. (2001). Impacts of deer herbivory on ground vegetation at Wytham Woods, central England. Forestry (Oxford), 74(3) 251-257. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/74.3.251	2001	Morecroft, M.D., Taylor, M.E., Ellwood, S.A., Quinn, S.A.	Impacts of deer herbivory on ground vegetation at Wytham Woods, central England	Forestry				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/74.3.251	0015-752X		74	3	251-257	Between 1974 and 1992 there were declines in bramble (Rubus fruticosus agg.) and several woodland forbs and an increase in grasses at Wytham Woods. These changes have been explained as the effects of increasing deer populations. This was tested by establishing exclosure experiments in the summer of 1997. Comparison of permanent vegetation monitoring plots inside and outside the exclosures, showed that forbs increased inside exclosures whilst decreasing in the wider wood, supporting the hypothesis that deer herbivory was responsible for the change. Changes in individual species were not, however, significant and it may take many years for the vegetation in the exclosures to reach a new equilibrium. In contrast to exclosures under the woodland canopy, additional exclosures in a clearing were rapidly colonized by bramble. It appears there is an interaction between solar radiation and herbivory and the decline of bramble at Wytham may reflect canopy closure as well as deer herbivory. Faecal pellet counts made in Environmental Change Network monitoring plots between August 1998 and April 1999 indicated different habitat use by fallow (Dama dama) and muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi) deer. Grasslands in proximity to the woodland tended to accumulate proportionally more fallow deer faeces, whilst dense ancient woodland areas tended to accumulate more muntjac faeces. There was, however, little evidence of an association between particular species of plant and differential habitat use by deer.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1997	2000	Spring	Mammals	Dama dama;Muntiacus reevesi;brambles;(Rubus fruticosus;Dicotyledons;Monocotyledons	Community Composition;Diversity	Yes	No
Morecroft_2001	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Morecroft, M.D., Taylor, M.E., Ellwood, S.A., Quinn, S.A. (2001). Impacts of deer herbivory on ground vegetation at Wytham Woods, central England. Forestry (Oxford), 74(3) 251-257. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/74.3.251	2001	Morecroft, M.D., Taylor, M.E., Ellwood, S.A., Quinn, S.A.	Impacts of deer herbivory on ground vegetation at Wytham Woods, central England	Forestry				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/forestry/74.3.251	0015-752X		74	3	251-257	Between 1974 and 1992 there were declines in bramble (Rubus fruticosus agg.) and several woodland forbs and an increase in grasses at Wytham Woods. These changes have been explained as the effects of increasing deer populations. This was tested by establishing exclosure experiments in the summer of 1997. Comparison of permanent vegetation monitoring plots inside and outside the exclosures, showed that forbs increased inside exclosures whilst decreasing in the wider wood, supporting the hypothesis that deer herbivory was responsible for the change. Changes in individual species were not, however, significant and it may take many years for the vegetation in the exclosures to reach a new equilibrium. In contrast to exclosures under the woodland canopy, additional exclosures in a clearing were rapidly colonized by bramble. It appears there is an interaction between solar radiation and herbivory and the decline of bramble at Wytham may reflect canopy closure as well as deer herbivory. Faecal pellet counts made in Environmental Change Network monitoring plots between August 1998 and April 1999 indicated different habitat use by fallow (Dama dama) and muntjac (Muntiacus reevesi) deer. Grasslands in proximity to the woodland tended to accumulate proportionally more fallow deer faeces, whilst dense ancient woodland areas tended to accumulate more muntjac faeces. There was, however, little evidence of an association between particular species of plant and differential habitat use by deer.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1997	2000	Spring	Vascular plants	Dama dama;Muntiacus reevesi;brambles;(Rubus fruticosus;Dicotyledons;Monocotyledons	Community Composition;Diversity	Yes	No
Kirby_2000a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C. (2000). Changes in the ground flora in Wytham Woods, southern England from 1974 to 1991 – implications for nature conservation. Journal of Vegetation Science, 11(6) 871-880. 10.2307/3236557	2000	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C.	Changes in the ground flora in Wytham Woods, southern England from 1974 to 1991 – implications for nature conservation	Journal of Vegetation Science				10.2307/3236557	1654-1103	http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3236557	11	6	871-880	The ground flora (vascular plants <2 m high and excluding trees and shrubs) was recorded in 1974 and 1991 in 163 permanent plots arranged in a systematic grid across Wytham Woods, Oxford, UK. The woods (320 ha) are predominantly deciduous but of varying ages and management types. There were no significant differences between years for total number of species found (173 and 167 in 1974 and 1991, respectively), the mean richness per plot (16.7 and 17.2, respectively) and the breakdown of species between different species types (ancient woodland, other woodland or non-woodland). However, mean ground cover declined from 80% in 1974 to 64% in 1991. Ancient woodland indicator species showed less change between the years than species associated with open glades and grassland patches in the woods. Some species increased in frequency throughout the woodland including Arum maculatum, Brachypodium sylvaticum, Deschampsia cespitosa and Poa trivialis, while others such as Ajuga reptans, Angelica sylvestris and Circaea lutetiana decreased. Mean cover of Rubus fruticosus per plot decreased from 35% to 6% and of Mercurialis perennis from 32% to 24%. More species were lost from plantations than from semi-natural stands. The results are consistent with effects of changing conditions associated with stand growth and an increase in browsing by deer. It is concluded that changes in the ground flora as well as the woody layers, and in managed as well as unmanaged stands should be monitored if nature conservation objectives are to be met. The plot system used at Wytham is also briefly evaluated.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1991	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Galium aparine; Geum urbanum; Rubus fruticosus; Glechoma hederacea; Hyacinthoides non-scripta; Mercurialis perennis; Urtica dioica;Arum maculatum; Brachypodium sylvaticum. Deschampsia cespitosa; Poa trivialis;Ajuga reptans; Angelica sylvestris; Circaea lutetiana;Rubus fruticosus; Mercurialis perennis	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Macdonald_2000	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Macdonald, D.W., Tew, T.E., Todd, I.A., Garner, J.P., Johnson, P.J. (2000). Arable habitat use by wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus). 3. A farm-scale experiment on the effects of crop rotation. JOURNAL OF ZOOLOGY, 250(313-320. doi:10.1111/j.1469-7998.2000.tb00775.x	2000	Macdonald, D.W., Tew, T.E., Todd, I.A., Garner, J.P., Johnson, P.J.	Arable habitat use by wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus). 3. A farm-scale experiment on the effects of crop rotation	Journal of Zoology				doi:10.1111/j.1469-7998.2000.tb00775.x	0952-8369 1469-7998		250		313-320	We investigated the effects of crop type on numbers and movements of wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus in field edges and in arable fields containing either winter wheat, winter barley or oil-seed rape, grown on a 3-year rotation. We also investigated the effect of habitat (field centre vs edge), and of season and year. This was done at the individual level using radio-tracking, and at the population level using live-trapping. Wood mouse population size (estimated as minimum number alive) was significantly affected by season. Wood mouse numbers also differed between crop types. Rape field centres and edges had significantly lower numbers than did barley or wheat field centres and edges. Populations were largest from April to July, when the crop was tall. In winter, significantly more mice were found in field edges compared with field centres. The patterns of movement of individual mice also showed differences between habitats and between seasons. Mice were found to move more quickly when they were tracked through rape compared with the other crops. When the crop was growing, they moved faster through field edges bordered with hedgerow than they did through wood. This pattern was reversed later in the year when the crop was tall. The distances moved during a session of tracking showed differences which paralleled those for speed of movement. Also, males tended to move faster than females. Differences between the sexes in movement patterns were affected by season; when the crop was down (in winter) females moved further than males during a session of tracking, but when the crop was growing and tall, this was reversed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Farmland		51.777785 ,-1.3346545	1991	1993	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Sternberg_2000	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Sternberg, M. (2000). Terrestrial gastropods and experimental climate change: a field study in a calcareous grassland. Ecological Research, 15(1) 73-81. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1440-1703.2000.00327.x	2000	Sternberg, M.	Terrestrial gastropods and experimental climate change: a field study in a calcareous grassland	Ecological Research				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1440-1703.2000.00327.x	0912-3814		15	1	73-81	The impact of field manipulations of local climate on terrestrial gastropod populations and how they may affect the dynamics of the plant community were studied in a calcareous grassland. The experimental site was located in a grassland at the Wytham estate, Oxfordshire, UK. Manipulations representing two climate change scenarios in a factorial combination were used, these were warmer winters with increased summer rainfall, and warmer winters with summer drought. The climate manipulations had a significant effect on the relative abundance of molluscs. However, no important changes in species composition were found. Distribution and densities of snails and slugs were affected because of changes in the physical environment and the vegetation in the grassland. The responses of different species to the climate manipulations were strongly influenced by their phenological traits and food preferences. Potential responses of mollusc populations to a changing climate are discussed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Wytham Estate	Grassland		51.773226071698396,-1.3223979180923118	1995	1996	All Year	Molluscs	Monacha cantiana;Candidula intersecta;Deroceras reticulatum	Abundance	Yes	No
Buse_1999	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Buse, A., Dury, S.J., Woodburn, R.J.W., Perrins, C.M., Good, J.E.G. (1999). Effects of elevated temperature on multi-species interactions: the case of pedunculate oak, winter moth and tits. Functional Ecology, 13(74-82. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2435.1999.00010.x	1999	Buse, A., Dury, S.J., Woodburn, R.J.W., Perrins, C.M., Good, J.E.G.	Effects of elevated temperature on multi-species interactions: the case of pedunculate oak, winter moth and tits	Functional Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2435.1999.00010.x	0269-8463		13		74-82	The authors present an integrated summary of the interactions between oak (Quercus robur), winter moth (Operophtera brumata) and great and blue tits (Parus major, P. caeruleus), at ambient and elevated temperature, and predict the effect of climate change on this food chain. Experiments and observations were carried out during the TIGER programme, 1993-97, at Wytham Wood, Oxford, and experimentally in a controlled environment (solardomes) at the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology, Bangor, Wales. Tree cores from Wytham Wood indicated that mature Q. robur trees grew best at high temperatures and rainfall, but with low caterpillar populations. Young trees grew less well at elevated temperature, probably because they lost more water than they gained. Elevated temperatures advanced budburst, reduced foliar nitrogen and increased leaf toughness. Operophtera brumata eggs laid later or maintained at cooler temperatures than average required fewer heat units to hatch. Caterpillars took up to 50 days to complete growth at field temperatures but did so in only 20 days at a constant 15 degrees C. The mass of Parus spp. chicks at day 15 (day 1= egg hatch) was positively correlated with temperature and negatively correlated with rainfall during the growing period. At elevated temperature, budburst and moth egg hatch were synchronized, but earlier. Late feeding larvae and larvae fed on leaves from trees grown at elevated temperature produced smaller pupae. Pupal mass was unaffected when caterpillars and trees were maintained together under the same conditions. Delaying egg hatch in Parus spp., to simulate conditions at elevated spring temperatures, resulted in reduced chick mass, body size and fledging success. This occurred because the chicks were fed later and prey quality was poorer, because the peak of caterpillar biomass was missed. The authors predict that moth reproductive output will be retained at elevated temperatures because both leaves and caterpillars develop faster. Brood size in birds may be reduced because they cannot lay early enough to coincide with the narrower peak of food abundance.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1983	1995	Spring	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Quercus robur;Operophtera brumata;	Community Composition;Other	Yes	No
Buse_1999	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Buse, A., Dury, S.J., Woodburn, R.J.W., Perrins, C.M., Good, J.E.G. (1999). Effects of elevated temperature on multi-species interactions: the case of pedunculate oak, winter moth and tits. Functional Ecology, 13(74-82. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2435.1999.00010.x	1999	Buse, A., Dury, S.J., Woodburn, R.J.W., Perrins, C.M., Good, J.E.G.	Effects of elevated temperature on multi-species interactions: the case of pedunculate oak, winter moth and tits	Functional Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2435.1999.00010.x	0269-8463		13		74-82	The authors present an integrated summary of the interactions between oak (Quercus robur), winter moth (Operophtera brumata) and great and blue tits (Parus major, P. caeruleus), at ambient and elevated temperature, and predict the effect of climate change on this food chain. Experiments and observations were carried out during the TIGER programme, 1993-97, at Wytham Wood, Oxford, and experimentally in a controlled environment (solardomes) at the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology, Bangor, Wales. Tree cores from Wytham Wood indicated that mature Q. robur trees grew best at high temperatures and rainfall, but with low caterpillar populations. Young trees grew less well at elevated temperature, probably because they lost more water than they gained. Elevated temperatures advanced budburst, reduced foliar nitrogen and increased leaf toughness. Operophtera brumata eggs laid later or maintained at cooler temperatures than average required fewer heat units to hatch. Caterpillars took up to 50 days to complete growth at field temperatures but did so in only 20 days at a constant 15 degrees C. The mass of Parus spp. chicks at day 15 (day 1= egg hatch) was positively correlated with temperature and negatively correlated with rainfall during the growing period. At elevated temperature, budburst and moth egg hatch were synchronized, but earlier. Late feeding larvae and larvae fed on leaves from trees grown at elevated temperature produced smaller pupae. Pupal mass was unaffected when caterpillars and trees were maintained together under the same conditions. Delaying egg hatch in Parus spp., to simulate conditions at elevated spring temperatures, resulted in reduced chick mass, body size and fledging success. This occurred because the chicks were fed later and prey quality was poorer, because the peak of caterpillar biomass was missed. The authors predict that moth reproductive output will be retained at elevated temperatures because both leaves and caterpillars develop faster. Brood size in birds may be reduced because they cannot lay early enough to coincide with the narrower peak of food abundance.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1983	1995	Spring	Insects	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Quercus robur;Operophtera brumata;	Community Composition;Other	Yes	No
Newton_1999a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Newton, I. (1999). Age ratios in a Bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula population over six years. BIRD STUDY, 46(330-335. doi:10.1080/00063659909461146	1999	Newton, I.	Age ratios in a Bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula population over six years	Bird Study				doi:10.1080/00063659909461146	0006-3657		46		330-335	Each year over five years (1962-67), the ratio of first-year to adult Bullfinches netted in Wytham Woods, near Oxford, increased from July or August to October, then declined to a fairly constant level from January onwards. The first-year to adult ratio in October used as a measure of annual productivity, varied from 2.8 to 5.5 in different years. A high first-year to adult ratio in October was followed by a relatively high ratio throughout the next year and beyond (excluding the new juveniles that appeared among netted birds from July).	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1962	1967	All Year	Birds	Pyrrhula pyrrhula	Abundance	Yes	No
Newton_1999b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Newton, I. (1999). An alternative approach to the measurement of seasonal trends in bird breeding success: a case study of the bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 68(4) 698-707. doi:10.1046/j.1365-2656.1999.00315.x	1999	Newton, I.	An alternative approach to the measurement of seasonal trends in bird breeding success: a case study of the bullfinch Pyrrhula pyrrhula	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.1046/j.1365-2656.1999.00315.x	0021-8790		68	3-1	698-707	1. On the basis of juvenile:adult ratios among netted birds and studies of moult, inferences are drawn about seasonal and annual variation in the breeding output of a bullfinch population studied near Oxford, in southern England.2. In most years during 1962-66, the juvenile:adult ratio among netted birds increased from July or August to October, and then declined. The ratio in October, taken as a measure of annual productivity, varied between 2.8 and 5.5 in different years.3. In the Oxford area, egg-laying among bullfinches occurred between mid-April and late August, so that the last young of the year left the nest in late September/early October. However, not all pairs continued breeding this late in the year. Individual bullfinches started to moult when they finished breeding. The proportion of adults which started moult after 20 August (implying successful breeding from eggs laid after mid-July) varied between 7 and 68% in different years (or between 19 and 63% using a different method of estimation). Juveniles from these late nests, identified as those starting moult after 31 August, formed 24-61% of the total juvenile population in different years, the rest having been produced from clutches begun before mid-July.4. In the 2 years when the greatest proportions of adults started to moult after 20 August and the greatest proportion of juveniles started after 31 august, the juvenile:adult ratios in October were highest. By implication, the two-fold variations in overall productivity between years were associated primarily with variations in the amount of late breeding.5. This study, based on moults and age-ratios among netted birds, provided information on seasonal productivity that was practically impossible to obtain in this species by conventional nest finding. An implication was that an interaction between the seasonal pattern of breeding in particular years and a seasonal trend in predation on nest contents, had major effects on overall annual productivity.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1962	1967	All Year	Birds	Pyrrhula pyrrhula	Abundance	Yes	No
Baines_1998	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Baines, M., Hambler, C., Johnson, P.J., Macdonald, D.W., Smith, H. (1998). The effects of arable field margin management on the abundance and species richness of Araneae (spiders). ECOGRAPHY, 21(1) 74-86. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0587.1998.tb00395.x	1998	Baines, M., Hambler, C., Johnson, P.J., Macdonald, D.W., Smith, H.	The effects of arable field margin management on the abundance and species richness of Araneae (spiders)	Ecography				doi:10.1111/j.1600-0587.1998.tb00395.x	0906-7590 1600-0587		21	1	74-86	The effects of ten different management regimes on the abundance and species richness of Araneae on pre-existing and newly expanded zones of field margins surrounding arable fields are compared in a large-scale experiment conducted between 1987 and 1991. Most of the management regimes involved varying the timing and frequency with which the field margins were cut. There was no evidence of consistent temporal trends in the abundance and species richness of Araneae on either the existing or expanded zones of the field margins during the first four years of the experiment. However, lowest numbers were recorded before expansion of the margins in 1987, and highest numbers in the final sample, in 1991. Araneae remained less abundant, and less species rich, on the newly expanded than on the existing zones of the field margins four years after they were 'set-aside'. Cutting reduced both abundance and species richness. Regimes which included cutting in mid-summer had a greater impact which persisted for longer than did those involving cutting in spring and autumn. Removal of cut material was associated with lower species richness than leaving it in situ. Sowing the margins with a wild flower seed mixture was associated with increased abundance and species richness of Araneae, Annual spraying with a broad-spectrum, non-persistent herbicide reduced the abundance of Araneae but the effect was not detectable until several months after the application of the spray. Both the species richness and abundance of Araneae were positively correlated with a measure of vegetation height made on the field margins in September, on both the pre-existing and newly expanded zones of the margins. The extent to which management practices which benefit Araneae are compatible with both the management requirements for various other taxa, and the overriding constraint of effective pernicious weed control on field margins, is discussed.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable		51.775668258496566,-1.3200753269380934	1987	1991	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Arachnids		Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Saether_1998	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Sæther, B.E., Engen, S., Islam, A., McCleery, R., Perrins, C. (1998). Environmental stochasticity and extinction risk in a population of a small songbird, the great tit. AMERICAN NATURALIST, 151(5) 441-450. doi:10.1086/286131	1998	Sæther, B.E., Engen, S., Islam, A., McCleery, R., Perrins, C.	Environmental stochasticity and extinction risk in a population of a small songbird, the great tit	American Naturalist				doi:10.1086/286131	0003-0147 1537-5323		151	4-1	441-450	Using a long-term demographic data set, we estimated the separate effects of demographic and environmental stochasticity in the growth rate of the great tit population in Wytham Wood, United Kingdom. Assuming logistic density regulation, both the demographic (sigma(d)(2) = 0.569) and environmental (sigma(e)(2) = 0.0793) variance, with interactions included, were significantly greater than zero. The estimates of the demographic variance seemed to be relatively insensitive to the length of the study period, whereas reliable estimates of the environmental variance required long time series (at least 15 yr data). The demographic variance decreased significantly with increasing population density. These estimates are used in a quantitative analysis of the demographic factors affecting the risk of extinction of this population. The very long expected time to extinction of this population (approximate-to 10(19) yr) was related to a relatively large population size (greater-than-or-equal-to 120 pairs during the study period). However, for a given population size, the expected time to extinction was sensitive to both variation in population growth rate and environmental stochasticity. Furthermore, the form of the density regulation strongly affected the expected time to extinction. Time to extinction decreased when the maximum density regulation approached K. This suggests that estimates of viability of small populations should be given both with and without inclusion of density dependence.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.769773219227595,-1.3293033773569944	1960	1990	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Morecroft_2000	Solo (Print)	Report	Morecroft, M.D. (2000). Linking climate and biological monitoring: the effects of drought at Wytham Woods. English Nature Science, 34. 120-129. 	2000	Morecroft, M.D.	Linking climate and biological monitoring: the effects of drought at Wytham Woods	English Nature Science					1363-3015		34		120-129	The summer of 1995 was the second driest and third warmest on record in the Oxford area. Data from the Environmental Change Network (ECN) monitoring programme at Wytham Woods were examined to detect impacts of the drought on vegetation, butterflies and ground beetles. Despite trees losing their leaves early and ground vegetation dying back, no major change in vegetation composition or tree mortality was found. In contrast grassland monitoring plots saw an increase in species number as ruderal species colonised gaps which opened up in the sward. Some animal populations increased in 1995, others decreased. In general terms most beetle species declined whilst most butterflies increased. There were however exceptions. In particular, speckled wood butterflies (Parage aegeria) decreased and the beetle Nebria brevicollis increased. The effects of this drought disappeared within four years, but a series of similar summers would give cause for concern. Current predictions of climate change suggest that such a sequence of events is becoming more likely.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	1999	Spring;Summer	Insects	Lepidoptera;Carabidae	Abundance	Yes	No
Morecroft_2000	Solo (Print)	Report	Morecroft, M.D. (2000). Linking climate and biological monitoring: the effects of drought at Wytham Woods. English Nature Science, 34. 120-129. 	2000	Morecroft, M.D.	Linking climate and biological monitoring: the effects of drought at Wytham Woods	English Nature Science					1363-3015		34		120-129	The summer of 1995 was the second driest and third warmest on record in the Oxford area. Data from the Environmental Change Network (ECN) monitoring programme at Wytham Woods were examined to detect impacts of the drought on vegetation, butterflies and ground beetles. Despite trees losing their leaves early and ground vegetation dying back, no major change in vegetation composition or tree mortality was found. In contrast grassland monitoring plots saw an increase in species number as ruderal species colonised gaps which opened up in the sward. Some animal populations increased in 1995, others decreased. In general terms most beetle species declined whilst most butterflies increased. There were however exceptions. In particular, speckled wood butterflies (Parage aegeria) decreased and the beetle Nebria brevicollis increased. The effects of this drought disappeared within four years, but a series of similar summers would give cause for concern. Current predictions of climate change suggest that such a sequence of events is becoming more likely.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	1999	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Lepidoptera;Carabidae	Abundance	Yes	No
Feber_1996	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Feber, R.E., Smith, H., Macdonald, D.W. (1996). The effects on butterfly abundance of the management of uncropped edges of arable fields. JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY, 33(5) 1191-1205. doi:10.2307/2404698	1996	Feber, R.E., Smith, H., Macdonald, D.W.	The effects on butterfly abundance of the management of uncropped edges of arable fields	Journal of Applied Ecology				doi:10.2307/2404698	0021-8901 1365-2664		33	5	1191-1205	1. The abundance and species richness of butterflies on expanded-width uncropped arable field edges, which were subject to 10 contrasting, experimental management regimes, were measured using transects in 1989, 1990 and 1991. The effects of the management regimes on a number of botanical variables, likely to be of importance to butterflies, were measured.2. On the experimental field edges, butterfly abundance and species richness fluctuated between years and peaked at different times each year.3. Butterfly abundance and species richness differed between experimental treatments. Plots which were either cut in the spring and autumn, or not cut at all, attracted more individuals and species of butterfly than did plots cut in the summer. Sowing with a grass and wild flower seed mixture increased butterfly abundance. Butterfly abundance declined on swards sprayed once annually with herbicide.4. Mowing, sowing and spraying had significant effects on mean flower abundance, on the annual and perennial components flowering in the sward, and on the abundance of commonly used nectar sources and larval host-plants.5. Stepwise multiple regression analyses on butterfly and plant data showed that the abundance of adults of most butterfly species was most closely associated with the abundance of flowers of key nectar source species.6. The results are discussed in relation to resource provision for larval and adult butterfly stages. Recommendations (emboldened in the text) are made for the conservation management of butterflies on arable farmland.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Farmland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1989	1991	Summer	Insects	Thymelicus sylvestris; Ochlodes venata; Gonepteryx rhamni; Pieris brassicae; Pieris rapae; Pieris napi; Anthocharis cardamines; Lycaena phlaeas; Polyommatus icarus; Celastrina argiolus; Vanessa atalanta; Cynthia cardui; Aglais urticae; Inachis io; Polygonia c-album; Pararge aegeria; Melanargia galathea; Maniola jurtina; Pyronia tithonus; Coenonympha pamphilus; Aphantopus hyperantus	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Gibson_1992a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K. (1992). Grazing and vegetation change: deflected or modified succession?. Journal of Applied Ecology, 29(1) 120-131. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2404355	1992	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K.	Grazing and vegetation change: deflected or modified succession?	Journal of Applied Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2404355	0021-8901		29	1	120-131	Vegetation change during the first 6 years of secondary succession in a calcareous former arable field and the effect of controlled grazing by sheep was studied in 1984-89 at the University of Oxford's Wytham estate, UK. The vegetation was grazed in 30 x 30 m paddocks from 13 to 23 Apr. or 9 to 24 Sep. by 3 sheep or from Apr. to Nov. or Aug. to Nov. by 6 sheep/paddock, or was not grazed. The results were compared with similar data from 40- to 100-years-old grassland nearby. The relative effects of time, place, sheep grazing and season of grazing on community change were assessed by canonical community analysis: detailed responses of the commoner species were investigated by analysis of variance. The two approaches complemented each other; multivariate analysis clearly separated effects on the community scale but was weak at detecting complex interactions. Grazing deflected succession but was subordinate to an intrinsic rate of vegetation change and to local variations in its direction. Succession only moved immediately towards the composition of the local ancient grasslands under the heaviest grazing treatment. Irrespective of grazing treatment and local conditions, secondary succession towards species-rich calcicolous grassland appeared to take at least a century to run its course. It was suggested that grazed grassland and forest successions could operate over similar time-scales. The implications for countryside management and 'creative conservation' are discussed.	Wytham Estate	Upper Seeds	Grassland		51.77583925863817,-1.3416019314375782	1984	1989	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Holcus lanatus;Medicago lupulina	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1992b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K. (1992). CHANGES IN SPIDER (ARANEAE) ASSEMBLAGES IN RELATION TO SUCCESSION AND GRAZING MANAGEMENT. JOURNAL OF APPLIED ECOLOGY, 29(1) 132-142. doi:10.2307/2404356	1992	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K.	CHANGES IN SPIDER (ARANEAE) ASSEMBLAGES IN RELATION TO SUCCESSION AND GRAZING MANAGEMENT	Journal of Applied Ecology				doi:10.2307/2404356	0021-8901		29	1	132-142	1. Spiders were sampled, by suction (D-vac) and direct counts of their webs, in a controlled sheep grazing experiment on calcareous ex-arable land and in old calcareous grassland. Results from 1985-89 are presented.2. Heavily grazed assemblages were dominated by a group of Linyphiidae, also characteristic of disturbed land. Large web-spinners were most sensitive to grazing, preferring ungrazed controls because of their dependence on rigid plant structures.3. DCA ordination of D-vac data suggested that only heavy grazing (in spring and autumn) produced a distinct assemblage. Three other grazed treatments produced impoverished versions of ungrazed control assemblages.4. The dominant successional trend was a gradual accumulation of species, especially in ungrazed controls. This process was incomplete by 1989: old grasslands contained many species, including some characteristic of calcareous grassland, which had failed to colonize the ex-arable field 7 years after abandonment.5. Most features of the assemblages could be explained by the effects of grazing on plant architecture, in contrast to other invertebrates studied in the same system, which were more strongly affected by plant species composition.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Grassland		51.77583925863817,-1.3416019314375782	1985	1989	Autumn;Summer	Arachnids	Pachygnatha degeeri;Xysticus cristatus;Lepthyphantes tenuis;Tibellus oblongus;Bathyphantes gracilis;Pisaura mirabilis;Stemonyphantes lineatus;Hypsosinga pygmaea;Theridion bimaculatum;Dismodicus bifrons;Lepthyphantes ericaeus;Drassyllus pusillus;Dictyna spp;Ero cambridgeilfurcata;Clubiona recluse;Linyphia clathrata;Pocadicnemis juncea;Pardosa prativaga;Erigoneatra;Tetragnatha extensa;Pachygnatha clercki;Oxyptila sanctuaria;Meioneta rurestris;Pardosa pullata;Cnephalocotes obscurus;Centromerita bicolor;Zelotes latreillei;Zora spp;Hypomma bituberculatum;Meioneta saxatilis;Ceratinopsis stativa;Pardosa nigriceps;Centromerus sylvaticus;Drassodes spp.;Euophrys aequalis;Oedothorax retusus;Pardosa palustris;Clubiona neglect;Entelecara flavipes;Troxochrus scabriculus;Alopecosa pulverulenta;Philodromus spp;Erigone dentipalpis;Hahnia nava;Tetragnatha montana;Walckenaeria antica	Abundance	Yes	No
Perrins_1999	Oxford University (Other)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M. (1999). A fifty-year study of great tits (Parus major). Biologia e Conservazione della Fauna, 102(55-62. 	1999	Perrins, C.M.	A fifty-year study of great tits (Parus major)	Biologia e Conservazione Della Fauna					1126-5221		102		55-62		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1947	1997	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Perrins_2001	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M., Overall, R. (2001). Effect of increasing numbers of deer on bird populations in Wytham Woods, central England. Forestry, 74(3) 299-309. 	2001	Perrins, C.M., Overall, R.	Effect of increasing numbers of deer on bird populations in Wytham Woods, central England	Forestry					1464-3626		74	3	299-309	In Wytham Woods, the numbers of deer have increased markedly in recent years and they have had a major impact on the woodland vegetation, both the herb layer and the shrub layer (including the lower branches of trees); they also seriously affect the regeneration of forest trees and the regrowth of coppice. Over the same period, a number of woodland bird species have declined in numbers. The large declines seem to have occurred mainly in those species which nest in low vegetation, especially bramble (Rubus fruticosus). Bramble is an important element of the deer diet and its decline in the woods seems likely to be largely due to deer although canopy closure may also have reduced its abundance. Hence the declines in some bird species may be brought about by the increase in deer numbers. The relevance of this suggestion to other woods is discussed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1990	2000	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Capreolus capreolus;Dama dama;Muntiacus muntjak	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_2001	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M., Overall, R. (2001). Effect of increasing numbers of deer on bird populations in Wytham Woods, central England. Forestry, 74(3) 299-309. 	2001	Perrins, C.M., Overall, R.	Effect of increasing numbers of deer on bird populations in Wytham Woods, central England	Forestry					1464-3626		74	3	299-309	In Wytham Woods, the numbers of deer have increased markedly in recent years and they have had a major impact on the woodland vegetation, both the herb layer and the shrub layer (including the lower branches of trees); they also seriously affect the regeneration of forest trees and the regrowth of coppice. Over the same period, a number of woodland bird species have declined in numbers. The large declines seem to have occurred mainly in those species which nest in low vegetation, especially bramble (Rubus fruticosus). Bramble is an important element of the deer diet and its decline in the woods seems likely to be largely due to deer although canopy closure may also have reduced its abundance. Hence the declines in some bird species may be brought about by the increase in deer numbers. The relevance of this suggestion to other woods is discussed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1990	2000	Not Reported	Mammals	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Capreolus capreolus;Dama dama;Muntiacus muntjak	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Phillipson_1976	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J., Abel, R., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J. (1976). Earthworms and the factors governing their distribution in an English beechwood. Pedobiologia, 16(4) 258-285. 	1976	Phillipson, J., Abel, R., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J.	Earthworms and the factors governing their distribution in an English beechwood	Pedobiologia					0031-4056		16	4	258-285	Ten species of earthworm were recorded from a Fagus sylvatica woodland (Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire). Compared with the lumbricid fauna of two Swedish beech woods (6 and 8 species) the "equitability" component of species diversity was low, which implies that maximum ecological diversity has not yet been attained in the 150-year-old woodland. Two species associations were identified: (i) A.rosea - L.terrestris - L.castaneus - D.mammalis, and (ii) A.rosea - A.caliginosa - L.terrestris - D.mammalis. Allolobophora caliginosa was the numerically dominant form and together with A.rosea comprised approximately 65% of the total numbers. These species associations differed from the Dendrobaena octaedra - L.rubellus association in Sweden. The differences are explained in terms of soil characteristics; pH was important in this respect (present site pH 7.3 to 8.0, Swedish sites pH 3.5 to 4.2 and 5.5 to 6.6). Computer derived maps of distribution according to abundance are given for the within site distributions of each of the ten species. Multiple regression and contingency table analyses showed that soil depth, soil moisture characteristics, litter standing crop and ground vegetation type are all important factors. It is suggested that inter-specific competition between earthworms on the study site (particularly for food) is reduced by ecological separation of the species in time and space and by different food preferences.	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1973	All Year	Annelids	Dendrobaena mammalis ;Lumbricus castaneus ;Dendrobaena rubida ;Lumbricus terrestris ;Allolobophora longa ;Allolobophora caliginosa ;Allolobophora rosea ;Allolobophora muldali ;Octolasion cyaneum 	Abundance	No	No
Gibson_1987a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibson, C.W.D., Dawkins, H.C., Brown, V.K., Jepsen, M. (1987). Spring grazing by sheep: effects on seasonal changes during early old field succession. Vegetatio, 70(1) 33-43. 10.1007/BF00040756	1987	Gibson, C.W.D., Dawkins, H.C., Brown, V.K., Jepsen, M.	Spring grazing by sheep: effects on seasonal changes during early old field succession	Vegetatio				10.1007/BF00040756	423106	http://www.jstor.org/stable/20038127https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF00040756	70	1	33-43	This paper describes early secondary succession on an old field on limestone released from cultivation four years previously. Seasonal changes in plant composition after spring grazing by sheep are compared with those in ungrazed controls. Grazed and ungrazed paddocks were laid out in Latin squares. Plants were sampled before and several times after grazing in April, at several spatial scales. Major changes in plant abundance and sward characters such as height and density persisted throughout the growing season. Annual herbs increased after grazing, but annual grasses declined, as did short-lived perennial herbs. Effects on perennial herbs were weak; perennial grasses usually increased but this depended on the species. This pattern confirms that sheep grazing affects the direction, as well as the rate of succession. Some effects, such as increases in biennial herbs and in species richness, were only evident at large scales of sampling, suggesting that they arose from changes in rare and widely dispersed species. Other species were affected at different spatial scales, and no one sampling method detected the full range of effects. These results indicate the potential power of manipulating grazing early in secondary succession for directing the course of community change, for conservation or other purposes. © 1987 Dr W. Junk Publishers.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Grassland		51.768786 ,-1.3333376;51.769677 ,-1.3318752	1984	1985	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Galium aparine;Senecio vulgaris;Anagallis arvensis;Avena sativa;Sonchus asper;Veronica persica;Aphanes arvensis;Carduus nutans;Myosotis arvensis;Triticum aestivum;Lolium spp.;Glechoma hederacea;Crepis capillaris;Poa spp.;Geranium dissectum;Ranunculus parviflorus;Prunella vulgaris;Geranium molle;Medicago lupulina;Sherardia arvensis;Agrostis stolonifera;Ranunculus repens;Agropyron repens;Cirsium vulgare;Lapsana communis;Veronica spp.;Bromus mollis;Bromus sterilis;Senecio jacobaea	Abundance	No	No
Gibson_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibson, C.W.D. (1986). MANAGEMENT HISTORY IN RELATION TO CHANGES IN THE FLORA OF DIFFERENT HABITATS ON AN OXFORDSHIRE ESTATE, ENGLAND. BIOLOGICAL CONSERVATION, 38(3) 217-232. doi:10.1016/0006-3207(86)90122-9	1986	Gibson, C.W.D.	MANAGEMENT HISTORY IN RELATION TO CHANGES IN THE FLORA OF DIFFERENT HABITATS ON AN OXFORDSHIRE ESTATE, ENGLAND	Biological Conservation				doi:10.1016/0006-3207(86)90122-9	0006-3207		38	3	217-232		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1897	1986	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.7582,-1.3300	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.76667323,-1.33029779	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.76104055,-1.300415695	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.77581898,-1.33601966	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.76326403,-1.339992765	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1986	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M. (1986). Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits. JOURNAL OF ANIMAL ECOLOGY, 55(1) 331-350. doi:10.2307/4712	1986	Minot, E.O., Perrins, C.M.	Interspecific interference competition - nest sites for blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:10.2307/4712	0021-8790 1365-2656		55	1	331-350	(1) Interspecific competition for nest sites was studied in blue and great tits nesting in boxes in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. (2) The breeding density of both blue and great tits was dependent on the density of nest boxes over the range of two to eight boxes per hectare. (3) Changes in blue and great tit densities, from one year to the next, were negatively correlated at low densities of nest boxes and positively correlated at high nest-box densities. The relative density of blue tits increased as the density of available nest sites increased. The spatial variance of blue tit mean density was dependent on great tit density over the same range of nest-box densities. The spatial variance of the great tit population was independent of blue tit density. (4) Blue and great tits do not maintain interspecific territories or space out their nest sites. They do compete for the same favoured nest sites. (5) Great tits are good interference competitors and are relatively more successful than blue tits where nest sites are limiting. Blue tits are good exploitation competitors and are successful where high breeding densities result in competition for food during the breeding season. (6) The patchiness and abundance of resources such as food and nesting sites may form an important dimension in the calculation of limiting similarity for competing species. 	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Bean Wood;Singing Way;Marley Plantation;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece	Woodland		51.77758558,-1.32748523	1964	1983	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Phillipson_1983b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J. (1983). Slug numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham-woods, Oxford. OECOLOGIA, 60(1) 38-45. doi:10.1007/BF00379318	1983	Phillipson, J.	Slug numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham-woods, Oxford	Oecologia				doi:10.1007/BF00379318	0029-8549 1432-1939		60	1	38-45	Four species of slug occurred on the site but a single species, Arion hortensis Férussac, dominated in terms of numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism. This species was found to have two main generations per year, a finding which contrasts with the annual life-cycle described for arable situations in NE England. A majority of slugs was found in areas with deep leaf litter and ground vegetation. Mean annual population density was 34 m-2 while mean biomass equalled 266 mg $\text{d}.\text{wt}.\text{m}^{-2}$. Respiratory metabolism was calculated to be in a range equivalent to 18.101-29.686 kJ m-2 yr-1. The most probable figure for annual food consumption was estimated at 3 to 4 g d.wt. m-2 yr-1 i.e. 1.28 to 1.70% of ground litter disappearance yr-1. The P/B ratio was 3.1 and net population production efficiency 36.4%.	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1972	All Year	Annelids	Arion  hortensis ;Arion fasciatus;Deroceras reticulatum ;Limax marginatus	Abundance	No	No
Phillipson_1983b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J. (1983). Slug numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham-woods, Oxford. OECOLOGIA, 60(1) 38-45. doi:10.1007/BF00379318	1983	Phillipson, J.	Slug numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham-woods, Oxford	Oecologia				doi:10.1007/BF00379318	0029-8549 1432-1939		60	1	38-45	Four species of slug occurred on the site but a single species, Arion hortensis Férussac, dominated in terms of numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism. This species was found to have two main generations per year, a finding which contrasts with the annual life-cycle described for arable situations in NE England. A majority of slugs was found in areas with deep leaf litter and ground vegetation. Mean annual population density was 34 m-2 while mean biomass equalled 266 mg $\text{d}.\text{wt}.\text{m}^{-2}$. Respiratory metabolism was calculated to be in a range equivalent to 18.101-29.686 kJ m-2 yr-1. The most probable figure for annual food consumption was estimated at 3 to 4 g d.wt. m-2 yr-1 i.e. 1.28 to 1.70% of ground litter disappearance yr-1. The P/B ratio was 3.1 and net population production efficiency 36.4%.	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1972	All Year	Molluscs	Arion  hortensis ;Arion fasciatus;Deroceras reticulatum ;Limax marginatus	Abundance	No	No
Phillipson_1983c	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J. (1983). Life cycle, numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism of Trichoniscus pusillus (Crustacea, Isopoda) in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford. Oecologia, 57(3) 339-343. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00377178	1983	Phillipson, J.	Life cycle, numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism of Trichoniscus pusillus (Crustacea, Isopoda) in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford	Oecologia				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00377178	0029-8549		57	3	339-343	Trichoniscus pusillus extracted from topsoil and litter in a beech woodland produced two distinct generations per year (May-June and July-August). Members of the early generation reproduced at c. 12 and 15 months of age while those of the later generation did so at c. 12 and 22 months. Mortality was higher in summer than in winter. Mean density and biomass were 480-500 individuals m-2 and 256-268 mg live wt. m-2. Annual respiratory metabolism at 0.399 l O2 m-2 contributes 0.15% of the total soil metabolism. The production/biomass (P/B) ratio was estimated to be 3.5 and the net production efficiency was 42%.	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1972	All Year	Crustaceans	Trichoniscus pusillus	Abundance	No	No
Phillipson_1983d	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J., Abel, R. (1983). Snail numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford. Oecologia, 57(3) 333-338. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00377177	1983	Phillipson, J., Abel, R.	Snail numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford	Oecologia				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00377177	0029-8549		57	3	333-338	Two methods of extraction were used in the estimation of snail population densities in woodland litter. The time-consuming Vagvolgyi technique proved to be 6.25 times more efficient than infra-red heat extraction but the results obtained by the latter method could be easily corrected to conform with those of the former. Snail density varied with season (winter, 1,000-1,250 m-2, summer, 50-600 m-2), the annual mean density being 645 m-2. The annual mean ash-free dry weight biomass was 176 mg m-2, and annual population metabolism equalled 0.894 l O2 (= 17.84 kJ m-2 year-1). Two independent estimates of the energy equivalent of food consumption gave values of 25.37 and 57.98 kJ m-2 year-1, which account for 0.54 and 1.23%, respectively, of the known ground litter disappearance of 4,716.58 kJ (= 235 g dry wt. m-2 year-1).	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1972	All Year	Molluscs	Carychium tridentatum;Cochlicopa lubrica;Columella edentula;Acanthinula aculeata;Ena obscura ;Clausilia bidentata;Vitrea contracta;Retinella pura;Retinella nitidula;Oxychilus cellarius/alliarius;Euconnlus fulvus. ;Punctum pygmaeum ;Discus rotundatus;Vitrina pellucida;Hygromia striolata	Abundance	No	No
Minot_1981	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O. (1981). Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits. Journal of Animal Ecology, 50(2) 375-385. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	1981	Minot, E.O.	Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	0021-8790		50	2	375-385	This paper on the effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue tits (Parus caeruleus) and great tits (P. major) in Wytham Wood, southern England, includes a comparison of the numbers of various kinds of arthropods (including the larvae of 13 species of Lepidoptera) that were taken by the 2 species of birds in 2 different years. Interspecific and intraspecific competition for food during the breeding season are considered to have been significant factors contributing to density-dependent limits on reproductive success in great tits.	Wytham Estate	Broad Oak;Bean Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation	Woodland		51.76326403,-1.339992765	1961	1977	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1981	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O. (1981). Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits. Journal of Animal Ecology, 50(2) 375-385. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	1981	Minot, E.O.	Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	0021-8790		50	2	375-385	This paper on the effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue tits (Parus caeruleus) and great tits (P. major) in Wytham Wood, southern England, includes a comparison of the numbers of various kinds of arthropods (including the larvae of 13 species of Lepidoptera) that were taken by the 2 species of birds in 2 different years. Interspecific and intraspecific competition for food during the breeding season are considered to have been significant factors contributing to density-dependent limits on reproductive success in great tits.	Wytham Estate	Broad Oak;Bean Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation	Woodland		51.7582,-1.3300	1961	1977	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1981	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O. (1981). Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits. Journal of Animal Ecology, 50(2) 375-385. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	1981	Minot, E.O.	Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	0021-8790		50	2	375-385	This paper on the effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue tits (Parus caeruleus) and great tits (P. major) in Wytham Wood, southern England, includes a comparison of the numbers of various kinds of arthropods (including the larvae of 13 species of Lepidoptera) that were taken by the 2 species of birds in 2 different years. Interspecific and intraspecific competition for food during the breeding season are considered to have been significant factors contributing to density-dependent limits on reproductive success in great tits.	Wytham Estate	Broad Oak;Bean Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1961	1977	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Minot_1981	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Minot, E.O. (1981). Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits. Journal of Animal Ecology, 50(2) 375-385. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	1981	Minot, E.O.	Effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue and great tits	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/4061	0021-8790		50	01/01/1900	375-385	This paper on the effects of interspecific competition for food in breeding blue tits (Parus caeruleus) and great tits (P. major) in Wytham Wood, southern England, includes a comparison of the numbers of various kinds of arthropods (including the larvae of 13 species of Lepidoptera) that were taken by the 2 species of birds in 2 different years. Interspecific and intraspecific competition for food during the breeding season are considered to have been significant factors contributing to density-dependent limits on reproductive success in great tits.	Wytham Estate	Broad Oak;Bean Wood;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation	Woodland		51.76104055,-1.300415695	1961	1977	Spring	Birds	Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Hanski_1980	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hanski, I. (1980). Spatial patterns and movements in coprophagous beetles. OIKOS, 34(3) 293-310. doi:10.2307/3544289	1980	Hanski, I.	Spatial patterns and movements in coprophagous beetles	Oikos				doi:10.2307/3544289	0030-1299 1600-0706		34	3	293-310		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Pasture		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1977	1977	Autumn;Spring;Summer;Winter	Insects	Oxyomus sylvestris ;Aphodius ater ;Aphodius  borealis ;Aphodius contaminates ;Aphodius  equestris ;Aphodius  fimetarius ;Aphodius  fossor ;Aphodius  obliterates ;Aphodius  prodromus ;Aphodius  pusillus;Aphodius  rufescens  ;Aphodius  rufipes ;Aphodius  sphacelatus ;Sphaeridium lunatum ;Cercyon obsoletus ;Cercyon impresses ;Cercyon haemorrhoidalis ;Cercyon melanocephalus ;Cercyon atricapillus ;Cercyon pygmaeus ;Cercyon terminates ;Cercyon quisquilius ;Cercyon unipunctatus ;Cercyon lateralis ;Cryptopleurum minutum ;Megasternum boletophagum ;Anacaena globules	Abundance	No	No
Smith_1999	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Smith, H., Feber, R., Macdonald, D.W. (1999). Sown field margins: why stop at grass?. Aspects of Applied Biology, 54) 275-282. 	1999	Smith, H., Feber, R., Macdonald, D.W.	Sown field margins: why stop at grass?	Aspects of Applied Biology					0265-1491			22/02/1900	275-282	Although sown grass mixtures are widely used in field margin restoration, forb species are rarely included. A large-scale field experiment at Wytham, Oxfordshire, UK was used to examine the establishment of forbs in a forb-grass mixture sown on field margins extended in width by fallowing adjacent arable land. Both the number of sown forb species and the abundance of individual species was much lower on the existing margins than on the newly fallowed extensions over a three year period. The numbers of sown forb species on the fallowed extensions were relatively constant over a five-year period but differed significantly under contrasting cutting regimes. Species richness increases with spring and autumn cutting compared with cutting in spring and summer and with two cuts/year compared with one cut/year. Species richness decreased with less favourable management regimes.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable	1	51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1996	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Poa pratensis; Festuca rubra ssp. commutata; Festuca rubra ssp. littoralis; Cynosurus cristatus; Trisetum flavescens; Phleum bertolonii; Hordeum secalinum; Hypericum perforatum; Hypericum hirsutum; Leucanthemum vulgare; Clinopodium vulgare; Primula veris; Prunella vulgaris; Ranunculus acris; Silene vulgaris; Galium verum; Silene latifolia alba; Centaurea nigra; Torilis japonica; Ranunculus bulbosus; Knautia arvensis; Centaurea scabiosa; Leontodon hispidus; Tragopogon pratensis;	Other	No	No
King_1980	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	King, C.M. (1980). The Weasel Mustela nivalis and its Prey in an English Woodland. Journal of Animal Ecology, 49(1) 127-127. 10.2307/4280	1980	King, C.M.	The Weasel Mustela nivalis and its Prey in an English Woodland	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/4280	0021-8790		49	1	127-127	(1) In a 27 ha deciduous woodland at Wytham, near Oxford, 344 samples (scats) were collected from live-trapped weasels, principally from September 1968 to March 1970. The home ranges and fleas of these weasels were described previously (King 1975, 1976). (2) In 215 samples containing wild-caught prey, 245 vertebrate itels were identified: fifty-one birds or eggs; one rabbit; one mole; and 192 small rodents (including eighty-nine bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus), forty field voles (Microtus agrestis), and thirty-four wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus)). The ages of the prey, and the species of the birds eaten, were unknown. (3) The most marked feature of the seasonal variation in the prey taken was the large number of eggs eaten in spring. (4) The differences in diet between six individual male weasels reflected differences in the habitats of their home ranges. (5) The density of bank voles and wood mice together varied from twenty-one to thirty-nine individuals per ha from September 1969. During this time the weasels were estimated to have eaten an average of 8-10% per month of the total populations of each species. Lagomorphs were rare in the wood; insectivores were common but almost never eaten. (6) Seasonal and local variations in the survival of wood mice bore no relationship to the distribution of resident weasels. (7) Predation by weasels usually accounted for only a small proportion of the wood mice and bank voles disappearing from the study area. (8) Weasels ate bank voles and wood mice in approximate proportion to their availability. Relatively more bank voles were taken in winter, when more weasels were present, because of differences between bank voles and wood mice in their preference for cover, and reactions to being hunted. The difference might have been biologically significant, although statistically insignificant. (9) The ecological eficiency of the rodent-weasel food chain averaged 0.6%. (10) The size of the territory occupied by weasels seems to be related to the density of prey rather than to e.g. the hunting skill of the owner. (11) Predation by weasels appeared to have no observable effect on the density or survival of small rodents in Marley Wood, but its effect on tits (Paridae) nesting in boxes is greater, for reasons discussed. (12)Weasels and tawny owls, the two principal resident predators in Marley Wood, ...........................	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation/Marley Wood	Woodland		51.76469603772469,-1.3149141934697721	1968	1969	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus;Clethrionomys;Mustela nivalis	Population Density	Yes	No
Phillipson_1978	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J., Abel, R., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J. (1978). Earthworm numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford. Oecologia, 33(3) 291-309. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00348115	1978	Phillipson, J., Abel, R., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J.	Earthworm numbers, biomass and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford	Oecologia				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00348115	0029-8549		33	02/01/1900	291-309	The mean population density of earthworms in a beech woodland was 164.6 m-2 in 1971/1972, and 117.5 m-2 (139.8 m-2 after correction for the type of extraction method) in 1972/1973. Mean biomass densities in these two years were 41.0 g and 38.6 g (39.2 g after correction) preserved wet weight m-2. The annual respiratory metabolism of the earthworms was calculated to be between 10.7 and 13.4 l O2m-2 yr-1, equivalent to between 4.1 and 5.1% of the total soil metabolism. A production/biomass ratio of 0.49-0.58, and a net population efficiency of 22%, were estimated.	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1973	All Year	Annelids	Dendrobaena mammalis ;Lumbricus castaneus ;Dendrobaena rubida ;Lumbricus terrestris ;Allolobophora longa ;Allolobophora caliginosa ;Allolobophora rosea ;Allolobophora muldali ;Octolasion cyaneum 	Abundance	No	No
Steel_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Steel, J.L. (1976). The production, movement and breakdown of litter in Beechwood. Thesis, University of Oxford, 	1976	Steel, J.L.	The production, movement and breakdown of litter in Beechwood		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters							Ground vegetation was sampled to estimate its contribution to litter in beech wood in Wytham	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland	1	51.76980382,-1.329488932	1969	1972	All Year	Vascular plants	Cephalanthers damasonium;Circaea lutetiana;Endymion non-scriptus;Epilobium montanum;Fragaria vesca;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium verum;Ceuta urbanum;Glechoma hederacea;Mercurialis peremis;Moehringia trinervia;Potentilla sterilis;Primula veris;Rosa canina;Rubus fruticosus;Ranunculus acris;Sanicula europaea;Senecio vulgaris;Stellaria media;Taraxacum officinale;Urtica dioica;Viola riviniana;Agrostis stolonifera;Agrostis tenuis;Brachypodium pinnatum Brachypodium sylvaticum;Dactylis glomerata;Deschampsia cespitosa;Festuca gigantea; Festuca ovina;Festuca rubra;Lolium perenne;Carex sylvatica	Other	No	No
Dawkins_1978	Solo (Digital)	Report	Dawkins, H.C., Field, D.R.B. (1978). A long term surveillance system for British woodland vegetation. Occasional Paper, Department of Forestry, Commonwealth Forestry Institute, University of Oxford, 1. 10.2307/2402542	1978	Dawkins, H.C., Field, D.R.B.	A long term surveillance system for British woodland vegetation	Occasional Paper, Department of Forestry, Commonwealth Forestry Institute, University of Oxford	Oxford	University of Oxford		10.2307/2402542			1			The project aimed to devise, install and eventually test a system of long-term inventory of mixed woodland, using permanently but inconspicuously marked plots and computer-processed observations.The immediate stimulus for the present project was the realisation that most British forests were - or would shortly be - going through same drastic changes as a result of afforestation or changes of dominant species, and yet little or no statistically representative surveillance was in hand, or even planned. For instance, we found cases of being unable to trace or measure the onset and spread of quite obvious man-induced erosion, of damage by grey squirrel, invasion by turkey oak and sycamore, disappearance locally of English oak, and the spread (or retreat) of herbaceous flora and dependent wildlife into (or out of) pure conifers. Still less was it possible to make predictions of the future composition of polyspecific woodland in nature reserves or to detect the first signs of relatively longterm changes in a production-forest soil. In 1973 we knew of only one attempt to set up a comprehensive vegetation surveillance system in Britain (Bunce & Shaw, 1973), and in our opinion this made insufficient provision for precise relocation of the observation points in future years. We considered these to be essential characteristics of a method designed to detect changes, when sampling error between occasions must be of the smallest possible, and must be unconfounded with the ordinary spatial sampling error of any scattered sample units.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1978	1978	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Phillipson_1977a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J., Abel, R., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J. (1977). Nematode numbers, biomass, and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford. Oecologia, 27(2) 141-155. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00345819	1977	Phillipson, J., Abel, R., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J.	Nematode numbers, biomass, and respiratory metabolism in a beech woodland - Wytham Woods, Oxford	Oecologia				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00345819	0029-8549		27	2	141-155	In beech woodland in England, the mean annual population density of nematodes in the litter and upper 6 cm of soil was found to be 368,000m-2. Mean individual live weight biomass approximated 0.2 mu g and mean biomass was calculated to be 74.6 mg live weight m-2. No evidence of seasonal vertical migration between the litter, 0 to 3 cm and 3 to 6 cm strata was found and on average these strata contained 21.9, 46.2 and 31.9%, respectively, of the total number of nematodes recovered. The equivalent biomass values were 26.14, 56.57 and 17.29%. Total numbers revealed a general picture of low densities in spring and high ones in early winter, whereas biomass m-2 was low in late summer-autumn and high in winter. The annual oxygen consumption of the extracted nematodes was calculated to approximate 0.211 m-2 ( approx equal to 4.0 kJ m-2) but when corrected for the effect of individual biomass (weight specific oxygen uptake) was equivalent to an energy expenditure approx equal to 6.0 kJ m-2 which in its turn, because of the efficiencies of extraction, probably accounts for only 87% of the total energy expenditure by the nematode fauna. The nematodes were estimated to be responsible for a minimum of 0.11% to a maximum of 0.13% of the total "soil" respiration. A production/biomass ratio of 5.16 was estimated as was a net population production efficiency of 36.63% [AS]. ADDITIONAL ABSTRACT: The mean annual population density of nematodes in the litter and upper 6 cm of soil was found to be 368,000 m-2. Mean individual live weight biomass approximated 0.2 mu g and mean biomass was calculated to be 74.6 mg live weight m-2. No evidence of seasonal vertical migration between the litter, 0-3 cm and 3-6 cm strata was found and on average these strata contained 21.9, 46.2 and 31.9% respectively of the total number of nematodes recovered. The equivalent biomass values were 26.14, 56.57, and 17.29%. Total numbers revealed a general picture of low densities in spring and high ones in early winter, whereas biomass m-2 was low in late summer - autumn and high in winter. The annual oxygen consumption of the extracted nematodes was calculated to approximate 0.21 l m-2 ( approx equal to 4.0 kJ m-2) but when corrected for the effect of individual biomass (weight specific oxygen uptake) was equivalent to an energy expenditure approx equal to 6.0 kJ m-2 which in its turn, because of the efficiencies of extraction, probably accounts for only 87% of the total energy expenditure by the nematode fauna. The nematodes were estimated to be responsible for a minimum of 0.11% to a maximum of 0.13% of the total "soil" respiration. A production/biomass ratio of 5.16 was estimated as was a net population production efficiency of 36.63%.	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1971	1972	All Year	Nematodes		Abundance	No	No
Phillipson_1975	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Phillipson, J., Putman, R.J., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J. (1975). Litter input, litter decomposition and the evolution of carbon dioxide in a beech woodland—Wytham woods, Oxford. Oecologia, 20(3) 203-217. 10.1007/BF00347473	1975	Phillipson, J., Putman, R.J., Steel, J., Woodell, S.R.J.	Litter input, litter decomposition and the evolution of carbon dioxide in a beech woodland—Wytham woods, Oxford	Oecologia				10.1007/BF00347473	1432-1939	https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00347473	20	3	203-217	Tree litter fall was measured from May 1969 to April 1973 and varied between 205 and 388 g/m2/year. Peak standing crops of the ground flora were determined between September 1969 and October 1972 and fell in the range 17.3 to 20.9 g/m2/year. Litter losses due to wind action had a net value of 8 g/m2/year and the mean above ground litter input to the soil was 235 g/m2/year. Between February 1971 and January 1973 above ground litter loss due to decomposition was calculated from litter standing crop depletions and litter turnover times. It was estimated to be 235.8 g/m2/year. Steady state conditions were thus assumed for this woodland. The contribution to litter from dying roots was estimated at 92 g/m2/year and hence the total input of dead organic matter to the site was 327 g/m2/year. Soil metabolism, measured as carbon dioxide evolution, showed a significant correlation with temperature and during 1973-1974 had a dry matter equivalent of 342 g/m2/year. The difference between the above ground litter input (235 g/m2/year) and the dry matter equivalent of soil metabolism (342 g/m2/year) was attributed to the decomposition of root litter, root  respiration and the respiratory activity of fungal myeorrhizae. Total organic matter decom- position accounted for 95% of total soil metabolism whilst the contributions by root and  mycorrhizal respiration approximated 4 and 1%, respectively.; 	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1969	1973	All Year	Fungi		Not Reported	No	Yes
East_1974	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	East, R. (1974). Predation on the soil-dwelling stages of the winter moth at Wytham Woods, Berkshire. Journal of Animal Ecology, 43(3) 611-626. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3526	1974	East, R.	Predation on the soil-dwelling stages of the winter moth at Wytham Woods, Berkshire	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3526	0021-8790		43	3	611-626	In further work on the predators of Operophtera brumata (L.) in a wood near Oxford [cf. RAE/A 58, 249, etc.], the components of the mortality of the soil-dwelling stages of the Geometrid were studied beneath 12 oak trees (Quercus robur) during the generation of 1972. The total mortality inflicted by soil-dwelling predators was divided into three consecutive mortalities: the mortality of larvae between dropping from the canopy and pupating in the soil, which was measured as the difference between the logarithms of the density of falling larvae trapped in metal trays and the initial density of pupae determined by soil sampling, the mortality of pupae, which was estimated by planting winter moth cocoons, some within areas where predators were excluded, and the mortality of the flightless adult females between emergence and climbing the tree trunks, which was estimated by capture-mark-release-recapture of females. Average estimates of the mortalities, expressed as percentages of the population of healthy larvae that dropped from the canopy, were 14% for larval, 62% for pupal and 5% for adult mortality and 81% for total predation in the soil. Pupal predation appeared to be mainly due to Carabids and Staphylinids. Carabids were estimated to have destroyed 38% (23% attributed to Abax parallelepipedus (Pill. & Mitt.) and 15% to Feronia spp.), Philonthus decorus (Grav.) and perhaps other Staphylinids 30%, and small mammals 4% of the initial population of pupae. Larval and adult mortalities were not detectably density-dependent, but pupal mortality was density-dependent between trees with different densities of O. brumata. The results of cocoon planting and pitfall trapping of predators suggested that this density-dependence may have been due to the behavioural responses of Philonthus and Feronia to the density of the Geometrid.	Wytham Estate	Great Wood	Woodland	1	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1972	1972	All Year;Winter	Insects	Operophtera brumata	Abundance	No	No
Flowerdew_1972	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Flowerdew, J.R. (1972). The effect of supplementary food on a population of wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus). Journal of Animal Ecology, 41(3) 553-566. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3195	1972	Flowerdew, J.R.	The effect of supplementary food on a population of wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus)	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3195	0021-8790		41	3	553-566	Wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) were trapped on two similar areas at Wytham near Oxford. On the experimental area of 1.1 ha wheat was provided at each of 45 trap points; the adjacent control area was 1.5 ha. During the spring growth period the mean weights of males and females on the experimental area were up to 20% higher than those on the control. In the spring of 1968 the decline in numbers on the control area was greater than on the experimental plot. In the summer of 1968 and the late winter of 1928-69 the experimental area had twice the population of the control. The supplementary food increased both immigration and survival. A short interruption in the food supply on the experimental area coincided with a sudden decrease in numbers and survival. The increased density on the experimental area in summer 1968 was shown to be the result of the better survival of overwintered and juvenile mice. In the autumn of 1968 the increase in numbers was later on the experimental area. Factors other than food supply affect wood mouse populations, especially in summer.	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland	1	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1967	1969	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Kitching_1971	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kitching, R.L. (1971). An ecological study of water-filled tree-holes and their position in the woodland ecosystem. Journal of Animal Ecology, 40(2) 281-302. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3247	1971	Kitching, R.L.	An ecological study of water-filled tree-holes and their position in the woodland ecosystem	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3247	0021-8790		40	2	281-302	In a study of the insect fauna of tree holes in Wytham Woods in southern England, six species were found that are regarded as typically associated with this habitat. They include Aedes geniculatus (Ol.) [cf. RAE B 60 411], which was frequent, and Anopheles plumbeus Steph. [loc. cit.], which was much less common. Anisopus fenestralis (Scop.) [cf. 55 718] was one of a number of species found that are attracted to any semi-aquatic or moist habitat and may breed in tree holes. Data are given on the seasonal periodicities of five species, including Aedes geniculatus, and the habits of the six species specifically associated with trees, having saprophagous larvae, are discussed.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1967	1968	All Year	Insects	Metriocnemus;Dasyhelea;Aedes;Myiatropa;Prionocyphon	Abundance	Yes	No
Cheng_1970	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Cheng, L. (1970). Timing of attack by Lypha dubia Fall. (Diptera: Tachinidae) on the winter moth Operophtera brumata L. (Lepidoptera: Geometridae) as a factor affecting parasite success. Journal of Animal Ecology, 39(2) 313-20. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2973	1970	Cheng, L.	Timing of attack by Lypha dubia Fall. (Diptera: Tachinidae) on the winter moth Operophtera brumata L. (Lepidoptera: Geometridae) as a factor affecting parasite success	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2973	0021-8790		39	2	313-20	A study of 18 years' data from Wytham Wood, Berks., showed that a high proportion of larvae of L. dubia dissected from prepupae of O. brumata that had fed on Oak (Quercus robur) were encapsulated and dead, whereas many parasites in prepupae of O. brumata that had fed on Crataegus oxyacanthoides, Prunus spinosa or Corylus avellana were alive. The relative failure of parasites of O. brumata on Q. robur is discussed in relation to the timing of attack by L. dubia and the rate of growth of O. brumata on different trees. The study may partly explain the apparently conflicting views of different workers on the importance of L. dubia.KEYWORDS: Corylus avellana \ Crataegus oxyacanthoides \ insect pests \ biology feeding behaviour \ Lepidoptera \ Parasites \ insect pests \ factors affecting parasite population \ insect pests \ natural enemies \ insects \ parasites \ Prunus spinosa \ Quercus roburs.s. insect pests \ Lepidoptera	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1965	1967	Not Reported	Insects	Lypha dubia	Abundance	Yes	No
Mason_1970	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Mason, C.F. (1970). Snail populations, Beech litter production, and the role of snails in litter decomposition. Oecologia, 5(3) 215-39. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00344885	1970	Mason, C.F.	Snail populations, Beech litter production, and the role of snails in litter decomposition	Oecologia				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BF00344885	0029-8549		5	3	215-39	A study in Wytham Woods, near Oxford, in a mature Beech stand. Of a total litter production of 652 g./sq.m., 584 g. was Beech material, including 58% leaves, 5.2% bud scales, 27% fruits and 10% twigs and bark. Over 70% of the litter fell in Oct-Dec. The estimated contribution of the field layer to total litter production was 3.4%. The weight of the litter layer in Sept. 1968 was 2700 g./sq.m., suggesting a turnover time of ca. 4.5 years: The mean population of snails (21 species) was estimated at 489/sq. m. and their annual biomass at 699 mg. dry weight. It was calculated that the snails ingested not more than0.35-0.43 % of the annual litter produced, assimilating 49%.KEYWORDS: Fagus sylvatica inc. F. moesiaca litter/humus \ forest litter \ forest litter \ amounts produced \ different \ vegetation types \ forest litter \ decomposition \ soil fauna \ forest litter \ fauna	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1968	1969	Not Reported	Molluscs	Carychium tridentatum; Cochlicopa lubrica; Columella edentula; Pupilla muscorum; Vallonia pulchella; Acanthinula aculeata; Ena obscura; Marpessa laminata; Clausilia bidentata; Vitrea contracta; Retinella radiatula; Retinella pura; Retinella nitidula; Oxychilus cellarius/alliarius; Euconulus fulvus; Punctum pygmaeum; Discus rotundatus; Vitrina pellucida; Hygromia striolata; Hygromia hispida	Abundance	No	No
Hassell_1969a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hassell, M.P. (1969). A population model for the interaction between CyzenisMonochaeta albicans (Fall.) (Tachinidae) and Operophtera brumata (L.) (Geometridae) at Wytham, Berkshire. Journal of Animal Ecology, 38(3) 567-pp. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3035	1969	Hassell, M.P.	A population model for the interaction between CyzenisMonochaeta albicans (Fall.) (Tachinidae) and Operophtera brumata (L.) (Geometridae) at Wytham, Berkshire	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3035	0021-8790		38	3	567-pp		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1950	1967	Not Reported	Insects	CyzenisMonochaeta albicans;Operophtera brumata	Abundance	Yes	No
Hassell_1969b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hassell, M.P. (1969). A population model for the interaction between Cyzenis albicans (Fall.) (Tachinidae) and Operophtera brumata (L.) (Geometridae) at Wytham, Berkshire. Journal of Animal Ecology, 38(3) 567-76. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3035	1969	Hassell, M.P.	A population model for the interaction between Cyzenis albicans (Fall.) (Tachinidae) and Operophtera brumata (L.) (Geometridae) at Wytham, Berkshire	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3035	0021-8790		38	3	567-76	The development of the model is described. Experience shows that it satisfactorily reflects (within limits that are discussed) the observed changes in O. brumata and C. albicans densities between 1950 and 1966. C. albicans is found to have little effect on the O. brumata population at Wytham, the strongly density-dependent pupal mortalities of both host and parasite being apparently the main factor responsible for their maintenance at relatively low densities. [Cf. F.A. 30 No. 2711. KEYWORDS: insect pests \ insect pests \ outbreaks dynamics \ insect pests \ outbreaks natural regulation \ insect pests \ outbreaks relation \ parasites \ Lepidoptera \ Operophtera \ insect pests \ natural enemies \ insects \ parasites \ Quercus robur sl \ insect pests \ Lepidoptera	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1950	1967	Not Reported	Insects	Cyzenis albicans;Operophtera brumata	Abundance	Yes	No
Fager_1968	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Fager, E.W. (1968). The community of invertebrates in decaying Oak wood. Journal of Animal Ecology, 37(1) 121-42. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2715	1968	Fager, E.W.	The community of invertebrates in decaying Oak wood	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2715	0021-8790		37	1	121-42	A study of the fauna of natural and synthetic (compressed-sawdust) logs on the floor of a mixed deciduous stand in Wytham Woods, Berkshire. KEYWORDS: decay \ wood \ decayed wood \ fauna occurring in	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1954	1954	Autumn;Summer	Annelids	Bimastos eiseni; Dendrobaena rubida tenuis ; Lumbricus castaneus;; Zercon triangularis; Veigaia nemorensis; Eugamasus lunulatus; Pergamasus crassipes; Pergamasus alpestris; Pergamasus barbarus; Pergamasus misellus; Pergamasus runcatellus; Digamasellus oudemansi; Iphidozercon gibbus; Lasioseius pencilliger; Zerconopsis remiger; Eviphis ostrinus; Macrocheles carinatus; Geholaspis longispinosus; Dinychus tetraphyllus; Cilliba cassidea; Cilliba catula; Eupodes variegatus; Linopodes motatorius; Rhizoglyphus echinopus; Schwiebea Ouds. 1916 sp.; Glycyphagidae sp.; Histiostoma sp.; Brachychthonius sellnicki; Platynothrus peltifer; Damaeus onustus; Oppia subpectinata; Oppia clavipectinata; Oppia nova; Thyrisoma lanceolata; Eremaeus oblongus; Tectocepheus velatus; Cepheus dentatus; Carabodes labyrinthicus; Xenillus tegeocranus; Adoristes ovatus; Liacarus tremellae; Zygoribatula exilis; Euzetes globulus; Chamobates borealis; Phthiracarus piger; Phthiracarus affine; Phthiracarus ligneus; Steganacarus magnus; Trichoniscus pusillus provisorius; Oniscus asellus; Brachydesmus superus; Cylindroiulus punctatus; Lithobius crassipes; Lithobius forficatus; Lithobius variegatus; Scolioplanes acuminatus; Hypogastrura purpurescens; Xenylla grisea; Friesea claviseta; Brachystomella parvula; Pseudachorutes asigillatus; Neanura muscorum; Onychiurus furcifer; Tullbergia krausbaueri; Folsomia quadrioculata; Proisotoma minima; Isotoma westerlundi; Isotoma cinerea; Isotoma notabilis; Isotoma viridis; Isotoma olivacea; Isotomurus palustris; Entomobrya albocincta; Orchesella cincta; Lepidocyrtus lanuginosus; Pseudosinella alba; Tomocerus minor; Neelus minimus; Sminthurus fuscus; Dicyrtoma minuta; Sphacridiinae A; Sphaeridiinae B; Ptinella limbata; Pteryx suturalis; Oxytelinae sp.; Trogophloeus elongatulus; Oxytelus rugosus; Aleocharinae A; Aleocharinae B; Myllaena gracilis; Denticollis linearis; Epiphragma ocellaris; Austrolimnophila ochracea; Anisopodidae sp.; Psychodidae B; Chironomidae, Orthocladiinae sp.; Ceratopogonidae A; Ceratopogonidae B; Cecidomyiidae A; Cecidomyiidae B; Stratiomyidae, Solvinae sp.; Rhagionidae sp.; Empididae sp.; Goniodiscus rotundatu; Arion subfuscus; Oxychilus ?cellariu; Limax ?maximus Linn.	Abundance;Diversity	No	No
Fager_1968	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Fager, E.W. (1968). The community of invertebrates in decaying Oak wood. Journal of Animal Ecology, 37(1) 121-42. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2715	1968	Fager, E.W.	The community of invertebrates in decaying Oak wood	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2715	0021-8790		37	1	121-42	A study of the fauna of natural and synthetic (compressed-sawdust) logs on the floor of a mixed deciduous stand in Wytham Woods, Berkshire. KEYWORDS: decay \ wood \ decayed wood \ fauna occurring in	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1954	1954	Autumn;Summer	Insects	Bimastos eiseni; Dendrobaena rubida tenuis ; Lumbricus castaneus;; Zercon triangularis; Veigaia nemorensis; Eugamasus lunulatus; Pergamasus crassipes; Pergamasus alpestris; Pergamasus barbarus; Pergamasus misellus; Pergamasus runcatellus; Digamasellus oudemansi; Iphidozercon gibbus; Lasioseius pencilliger; Zerconopsis remiger; Eviphis ostrinus; Macrocheles carinatus; Geholaspis longispinosus; Dinychus tetraphyllus; Cilliba cassidea; Cilliba catula; Eupodes variegatus; Linopodes motatorius; Rhizoglyphus echinopus; Schwiebea Ouds. 1916 sp.; Glycyphagidae sp.; Histiostoma sp.; Brachychthonius sellnicki; Platynothrus peltifer; Damaeus onustus; Oppia subpectinata; Oppia clavipectinata; Oppia nova; Thyrisoma lanceolata; Eremaeus oblongus; Tectocepheus velatus; Cepheus dentatus; Carabodes labyrinthicus; Xenillus tegeocranus; Adoristes ovatus; Liacarus tremellae; Zygoribatula exilis; Euzetes globulus; Chamobates borealis; Phthiracarus piger; Phthiracarus affine; Phthiracarus ligneus; Steganacarus magnus; Trichoniscus pusillus provisorius; Oniscus asellus; Brachydesmus superus; Cylindroiulus punctatus; Lithobius crassipes; Lithobius forficatus; Lithobius variegatus; Scolioplanes acuminatus; Hypogastrura purpurescens; Xenylla grisea; Friesea claviseta; Brachystomella parvula; Pseudachorutes asigillatus; Neanura muscorum; Onychiurus furcifer; Tullbergia krausbaueri; Folsomia quadrioculata; Proisotoma minima; Isotoma westerlundi; Isotoma cinerea; Isotoma notabilis; Isotoma viridis; Isotoma olivacea; Isotomurus palustris; Entomobrya albocincta; Orchesella cincta; Lepidocyrtus lanuginosus; Pseudosinella alba; Tomocerus minor; Neelus minimus; Sminthurus fuscus; Dicyrtoma minuta; Sphacridiinae A; Sphaeridiinae B; Ptinella limbata; Pteryx suturalis; Oxytelinae sp.; Trogophloeus elongatulus; Oxytelus rugosus; Aleocharinae A; Aleocharinae B; Myllaena gracilis; Denticollis linearis; Epiphragma ocellaris; Austrolimnophila ochracea; Anisopodidae sp.; Psychodidae B; Chironomidae, Orthocladiinae sp.; Ceratopogonidae A; Ceratopogonidae B; Cecidomyiidae A; Cecidomyiidae B; Stratiomyidae, Solvinae sp.; Rhagionidae sp.; Empididae sp.; Goniodiscus rotundatu; Arion subfuscus; Oxychilus ?cellariu; Limax ?maximus Linn.	Abundance;Diversity	No	No
Turnbull_1960	External	Journal Article	Turnbull, A.L. (1960). The Spider Population of a Stand of Oak (Quercus robur L.) in Wytham Wood, Berks., England. The Canadian Entomologist, 92(2) 110-124. 	1960	Turnbull, A.L.	The Spider Population of a Stand of Oak (Quercus robur L.) in Wytham Wood, Berks., England	The Canadian Entomologist					1918-3240		92	2	110-124		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.77784441460702,-1.3349616463015346	1954	1956	All Year	Arachnids	Lathys humilis;Harpactea hombergi;Drassodes lapidosus cupreus;Scotophaeus blackwalli;Zelotes latreillei;Clubiona reclusa;Clubiona coerulescens;Clubiona pallidula;Clubiona neglecta;Clubiona lutescens;Clubiona compta;Clubiona brevipes;Clubiona diversa;Agroeca brunnea;Zora spinimana;Anyphaena accentuata;Micrommata virescens;Xysticus cristatus;Xysticus lanio;Xysticus ulmi;Xysticus luctuosus;Philodromus dispar;Philodromus aureolus;Philodromus rufus;Tibellus oblongus;Diaea dorsata;Misumena vatia;Oxyptila atomaria;Oxyptila trux;Salticus scenicus;Heliophanus flavipes;Europhrys frontalis;Evarcha falcata;Lycosa pullata;Lycosa nigriceps;Lycosa lugubris;Tarentula pulverulenta;Trochosa ruricola;Trochosa terricola;Trochosa spinipalpis;Pisaura mirabilis;Amaurobius atropos;Theridion vittatum;Theridion varians;Theridion neglectum;Theridion melanurum;Theridion denticulatum;Theridion pallens;Enoplognatha ovatum;Tetragnatha montana;Tetragnatha obtusa;Pachygnatha clercki;Pachygnatha degeeri;Meta segmentata;Meta segmentata mengei;Meta merianae;Araneus gibbosus;Araneus diadematus;Araneus marmoreus pyramidatus;Araneus cornutus;Araneus umbraticus;Araneus triguttatus;Araneus inconspicuous;Cercidia prowzinens;Cyclosa conica;Zygiella atrica;Ceratinella brevis;Ceratinella brevipes;Cornicularia cuspidata;Gongylidium rufipes;Hypoma cornutum;Gonatzum rubens;Gonatzum rubellum;Maso sundevalli;Tapinocyba praecox;Micargus herbifladus;Panamonzops sulcifrons;Bathypbantes nigrinus;Centromerus sylvatica;Drapetisca socialis;Floronia bucculenta;Labulla thoracica;Stemonyphantes lineatus;Lepthyphantes minutus;Lepthyphantes tenuis;Lepthyphantes zimermanni;Lepthyphantes mistatus;Lepthyphantes flavipes;Lepthyphantes ericaeus;Helophorus insignis;Linyphia triangularis;Linyphia montana;Linyphia clathrata;Linyphia pusilla;Linyphia peltata;Linyphia hortensis;Linyphia impigra	Community Composition;Population Density	Yes	No
Watts_1968	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Watts, C.H.S. (1968). The foods eaten by wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) and bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) in Wytham Woods, Berkshire. Journal of Animal Ecology, 37(25-41. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2709	1968	Watts, C.H.S.	The foods eaten by wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) and bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) in Wytham Woods, Berkshire	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2709	0021-8790		37		25-41	Estimates of the relative volumes of the different foods eaten by wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) and bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) in woodland edge habitat in Wytham Woods near Oxford were made at intervals of 5 weeks for 17 months. In 2 autumns estimates were made also of the relative volumes of the different foods eaten by these species on 4 other areas in the same woods. Wood mice were mainly seedeaters but when seeds were scarce in the spring and early summer they turned to arthropods or, when these were not abundant, to the buds or young shoots of green plants. There was little difference in diet between sexes, but very young individuals tended to eat less seed and a greater variety of foods than adults. Bank voles were almost wholly herbivorous, but ate large amounts of dead leaves in winter. Fleshy fruits were eaten when available as were seeds with a relatively soft testa. The leaves of woody plants were preferred to those of herbs, which were eaten in quantity only when the former were unavailable. Small quantities of fungi, roots, flowers, grass, moss, insects and worms were eaten also. There was little difference in diet between sexes. Young bank voles ate less seed and perhaps also less fruit than adults. Differences in diets of wood mice and bank voles were great enough to prevent competition for food between the species in habitats similar to those studied.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1964	1964	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomysglareolus	Abundance	Yes	No
Frank_1967	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Frank, J.H. (1967). The insect predators of the pupal stage of the winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.) (Lepidoptera: Hydriomenidae). Journal of Animal Ecology, 36(2) 375-89. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2920	1967	Frank, J.H.	The insect predators of the pupal stage of the winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.) (Lepidoptera: Hydriomenidae)	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2920	0021-8790		36	2	375-89	From studies in Quercus robur woodland at Wytham, Berks., methods are given of trapping, rearing and estimating the populations of the possible insect predators. Feeding tests, serological tests and a radioactive-tracer test are described. They showed that Pterostichus spp., Abax parallelepipedus and Philonthus decorus are important predators of O. brumata pupae. KEYWORDS: Operophtera brumata\Predators of insect pests insects\Quercus robur s.s. insect pests Lep. KEYWORDS:	Wytham Estate	Great Wood	Woodland		51.77581898,-1.33601966	1965	1965	Not Reported	Insects	Pterostichus melanarius	Abundance	No	No
Frank_1967a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Frank, J.H. (1967). The effect of pupal predators on a population of winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.) (Hydriomenidae). Journal of Animal Ecology, 36(3) 611-21. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2816	1967	Frank, J.H.	The effect of pupal predators on a population of winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.) (Hydriomenidae)	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2816	0021-8790		36	3	611-21	It is estimated that ca. 269 O. brumata larvae per sq. m. fell to the ground to pupate from a group of Oaks at Wytham, Berkshire, in 1965, ca. 238 being. healthy. Ca. 95 of the resultant pupae were probably taken by carabid and staphylinid predators, and perhaps ca. 25 more by the shrew Sorex araneus. Unknown numbers were taken by elaterid larvae and small mammals other than S. araneus. Some fallen larvae were also taken by surface-active predators, and a smaller number of emerging adult moths was probably taken by surface-active predators, mainly small mammals. It is indicated that predation on 0. brumata is density-dependent; the way in which the relationship might function is suggested. [Cf. F.A. 29 No. 975. KEYWORDS: Animal damage \ insect pests \ insect pests \ pupae \ Lepidoptera \ Operophtera brumata \ insect pests \ predators \ natural enemies \ insects \ protection \ forests \ and plantation \ Quercus robur \ insect pests	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1965	1965	Winter	Insects	Phljonthis decoru;Pterostichus stichus madidus;Pterostichus melanarius;Abax parallellepipedus;Philonthus decorus;;Sorex araneus	Abundance	Yes	No
Frank_1967a	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Frank, J.H. (1967). The effect of pupal predators on a population of winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.) (Hydriomenidae). Journal of Animal Ecology, 36(3) 611-21. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2816	1967	Frank, J.H.	The effect of pupal predators on a population of winter moth, Operophtera brumata (L.) (Hydriomenidae)	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2816	0021-8790		36	3	611-21	It is estimated that ca. 269 O. brumata larvae per sq. m. fell to the ground to pupate from a group of Oaks at Wytham, Berkshire, in 1965, ca. 238 being. healthy. Ca. 95 of the resultant pupae were probably taken by carabid and staphylinid predators, and perhaps ca. 25 more by the shrew Sorex araneus. Unknown numbers were taken by elaterid larvae and small mammals other than S. araneus. Some fallen larvae were also taken by surface-active predators, and a smaller number of emerging adult moths was probably taken by surface-active predators, mainly small mammals. It is indicated that predation on 0. brumata is density-dependent; the way in which the relationship might function is suggested. [Cf. F.A. 29 No. 975. KEYWORDS: Animal damage \ insect pests \ insect pests \ pupae \ Lepidoptera \ Operophtera brumata \ insect pests \ predators \ natural enemies \ insects \ protection \ forests \ and plantation \ Quercus robur \ insect pests	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1965	1965	Winter	Mammals	Phljonthis decoru;Pterostichus stichus madidus;Pterostichus melanarius;Abax parallellepipedus;Philonthus decorus;;Sorex araneus	Abundance	Yes	No
Smyth_1966	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Smyth, M. (1966). Winter Breeding in Woodland Mice, Apodemus Sylvaticus, and Voles, Clethrionomys Glareolus and Microtus Agrestis, Near Oxford. Journal of Animal Ecology, 35(3) 471-485. 10.2307/2486	1966	Smyth, M.	Winter Breeding in Woodland Mice, Apodemus Sylvaticus, and Voles, Clethrionomys Glareolus and Microtus Agrestis, Near Oxford	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2486	00218790, 13652656	http://www.jstor.org/stable/2486	35	3	471-485	[1. Bank voles and wood mice bred at least as late as December after good acorn crops in 1951, 1956, 1958, 1962 and 1964. After a good acorn crop in 1949, wood mice certainly bred into December; bank voles might have bred later than usual. In no other year since 1949 has there been a good acorn crop or have bank voles or wood mice bred into the winter. 2. In December 1962, more bank voles and wood mice were in breeding condition where oak trees were abundant than where they were sparse. The differences between breeding intensities of male bank voles on these areas in December 1962 were mainly a matter of differences in the number of young males in breeding condition. Bank vole litters are smaller in the winter than in the summer, from both parous and nulliparous females. 3. Field voles also bred at least into December 1962, both in woodland and grassland. Some male bank voles and wood mice maintained breeding condition under the snow cover during the severe winter of 1962-63. 4. The relationship between winter breeding and acorn crops is not simple. It is argued that a very good food supply is necessary for winter breeding, but that winter breeding also depends on some other unidentified factor which is possibly some quality of the population itself.]	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Great Wood	Woodland	2	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1949	1965	Winter	Mammals	Apodemus Sylvaticus;Clethrionomys Glareolus;Microtus Agrestis	Abundance	Yes	No
Smyth_1966	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Smyth, M. (1966). Winter Breeding in Woodland Mice, Apodemus Sylvaticus, and Voles, Clethrionomys Glareolus and Microtus Agrestis, Near Oxford. Journal of Animal Ecology, 35(3) 471-485. 10.2307/2486	1966	Smyth, M.	Winter Breeding in Woodland Mice, Apodemus Sylvaticus, and Voles, Clethrionomys Glareolus and Microtus Agrestis, Near Oxford	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2486	00218790, 13652656	http://www.jstor.org/stable/2486	35	3	471-485	[1. Bank voles and wood mice bred at least as late as December after good acorn crops in 1951, 1956, 1958, 1962 and 1964. After a good acorn crop in 1949, wood mice certainly bred into December; bank voles might have bred later than usual. In no other year since 1949 has there been a good acorn crop or have bank voles or wood mice bred into the winter. 2. In December 1962, more bank voles and wood mice were in breeding condition where oak trees were abundant than where they were sparse. The differences between breeding intensities of male bank voles on these areas in December 1962 were mainly a matter of differences in the number of young males in breeding condition. Bank vole litters are smaller in the winter than in the summer, from both parous and nulliparous females. 3. Field voles also bred at least into December 1962, both in woodland and grassland. Some male bank voles and wood mice maintained breeding condition under the snow cover during the severe winter of 1962-63. 4. The relationship between winter breeding and acorn crops is not simple. It is argued that a very good food supply is necessary for winter breeding, but that winter breeding also depends on some other unidentified factor which is possibly some quality of the population itself.]	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood;Great Wood	Woodland	2	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1949	1965	Winter	Mammals	Apodemus Sylvaticus;Clethrionomys Glareolus;Microtus Agrestis	Abundance	Yes	No
Paviour Smith_1965	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Paviour-Smith, K. (1965). Some factors affecting numbers of the fungus beetle Tetratoma fungorum F. Journal of Animal Ecology, 34(3) 699-724. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2457	1965	Paviour-Smith, K.	Some factors affecting numbers of the fungus beetle Tetratoma fungorum F	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2457	0021-8790		34	3	699-724	Describes the way in which the life history of T. fungorum is timed to coincide with the living stage of Polyporus betulinus brackets on Betula verrucosa in Wytham Woods, near Oxford. KEYWORDS: Betula verrucosa \ B. pendula, see also \ B. alba \ diseases \ Entomology \ Fungi associated \ dieback \ plant disorders \ insects \ insect pests \ Coleoptera \ insect pests \ associated fungi \ decay fungi \ relation \ insects	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1957	1958	Spring;Winter	Insects	Tetratoma fungorum F.	Abundance	Yes	No
Perrins_1965	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M. (1965). Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L. Journal of Animal Ecology, 34(3) 601-47. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	1965	Perrins, C.M.	Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	0021-8790		34	3	601-47	A paper based on records of populations in Wytham Wood near Oxford since 1947. Among factors affecting clutch size is the number of large trees in the habitat. Over-winter survival is affected by the size of the Beech-mast crop. KEYWORDS: Birds ecologicai studies \ Birds food \ Birds great tit \ animal ecology \ ecology	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Wytham Common	Woodland		51.7582,-1.3300	1959	1964	Winter	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Perrins_1965	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M. (1965). Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L. Journal of Animal Ecology, 34(3) 601-47. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	1965	Perrins, C.M.	Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	0021-8790		34	3	601-47	A paper based on records of populations in Wytham Wood near Oxford since 1947. Among factors affecting clutch size is the number of large trees in the habitat. Over-winter survival is affected by the size of the Beech-mast crop. KEYWORDS: Birds ecologicai studies \ Birds food \ Birds great tit \ animal ecology \ ecology	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Wytham Common	Woodland		51.76326403,-1.339992765	1959	1964	Winter	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Perrins_1965	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M. (1965). Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L. Journal of Animal Ecology, 34(3) 601-47. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	1965	Perrins, C.M.	Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	0021-8790		34	3	601-47	A paper based on records of populations in Wytham Wood near Oxford since 1947. Among factors affecting clutch size is the number of large trees in the habitat. Over-winter survival is affected by the size of the Beech-mast crop. KEYWORDS: Birds ecologicai studies \ Birds food \ Birds great tit \ animal ecology \ ecology	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Wytham Common	Woodland		51.77581898,-1.33601966	1959	1964	Winter	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Perrins_1965	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Perrins, C.M. (1965). Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L. Journal of Animal Ecology, 34(3) 601-47. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	1965	Perrins, C.M.	Population fluctuations and clutch-size in the great tit, Parus major L	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2453	0021-8790		34	3	601-47	A paper based on records of populations in Wytham Wood near Oxford since 1947. Among factors affecting clutch size is the number of large trees in the habitat. Over-winter survival is affected by the size of the Beech-mast crop. KEYWORDS: Birds ecologicai studies \ Birds food \ Birds great tit \ animal ecology \ ecology	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood;Broad Oak;Great Wood;Marley Wood;Wytham Common	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1959	1964	Winter	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Kikkawa_1964	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kikkawa, J. (1964). Movement, activity, and distribution of the small rodents Clethrionomys glareolus and Apodemus sylvaticus in woodland. Journal of Animal Ecology, 33(2) 259-99. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2631	1964	Kikkawa, J.	Movement, activity, and distribution of the small rodents Clethrionomys glareolus and Apodemus sylvaticus in woodland	Journal of Animal Ecology				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/2631	0021-8790		33	2	259-99	A trapping study of bank voles and wood mice inside and outside an isolated 5-acre woodland in Wytham Woods, Berkshire, to assess errors in population estimates associated with the capture- recapture technique. Two voles were traced with a Geiger-Muller counter. Distribution of voles in woodland was closely associated with ground cover, and varied seasonally. From author's summary. KEYWORDS: Ecology animal \ Mice and voles population studies	Wytham Estate	The Pasticks	Woodland	1	51.76468422,-1.31850352	1956	1957	Spring;Winter	Mammals	Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Miller_1958	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Miller, R.S. (1958). A Study of a Wood Mouse Population in Wytham Woods, Berkshire. Journal of Mammalogy, 39(4) 477-477. 10.2307/1376784	1958	Miller, R.S.	A Study of a Wood Mouse Population in Wytham Woods, Berkshire	Journal of Mammalogy				10.2307/1376784	1545-1542	https://academic.oup.com/jmammal/article-abstract/39/4/477/915626?redirectedFrom=fulltext	39	4	477-477		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1950	1951	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys glareolus;Sorex araneus	Abundance	Yes	No
Brereton_1957	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Brereton, J.Le G. (1957). The distribution of woodland isopods. Oikos, 8(2) 85-106. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3564994	1957	Brereton, J.Le G.	The distribution of woodland isopods	Oikos				doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/3564994	0030-1299		8	2	85-106	Species found at Wytham, Oxford, a woodland of Oak/Ash/Sycamore Maple, are Oniscus asellus, Porcellio scaber, Armadillidium vulgare, Philoscia muscorum and Trichoniscus spp. Data are given on the numbers found on the different tree species in day and night time; seasonal changes in distribution; and micro-geographical differences in species distribution. KEYWORDS: animal ecology \ ecology \ animal ecology \ ecology \ distribution \ woodland isopods \ soil fauna	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1953	1954	Winter	Crustaceans	Porcellio scaber;Oniscus asellus;Philoscia muscorum;Trichoniscus spp.;Armadillidium vulgare	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibb_1954	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibb, J. (1954). Feeding Ecology of Tits, With Notes on Treecreeper and Goldcrest. Ibis, 96(4) 513-543. 10.1111/j.1474-919X.1954.tb05476.x	1954	Gibb, J.	Feeding Ecology of Tits, With Notes on Treecreeper and Goldcrest	Ibis				10.1111/j.1474-919X.1954.tb05476.x	0019-1019	https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1474-919X.1954.tb05476.x	96	4	513-543	The feeding habits of the titmice, Treecreeper and Goldcrest were studied in a mixed broad‐leaved wood near Oxford, from April 1950 to August 1951, by means of repeated standard observations. The proportion of time spent feeding varied inversely with the body‐weight of the species. A greater proportion of the time was spent feeding in mid‐winter, and in the breeding season when young were being fed, than in spring or autumn. Feeding intensity varied similarly. Fighting for food was recorded most often in mid‐winter, and rarely in summer. Most attacks were intraspecific. Probably individuals gain or lose much food by fighting. Although adult birds search for food most of the time when feeding young, they preen then as often as at other times. The period and intensity of singing and calling was measured. This was often performed concurrently with other activities–mainly feeding–in the tits, least often by Great Tits, most often by Coal Tits. Distant flight was more often recorded in winter than in summer. The frequency with which the birds fed a in different species of trees and shrubs, and (6) at different feeding stations, varied significantly from month to month. The behaviour of the birds is described. The Parus species fed most diversely in autumn, and least diversely in early summer. Coal and Marsh Tits fed more diversely than Great and Blue Tits, which in turn fed more diversely than Longtailed Tits and Goldcrests. The tit species were more distinctly segregated from each other by feeding habit in winter than in summer. Food was especially short in mid‐winter and in the breeding season, and competition for food was most severe in mid‐winter. Hence mortality from food shortage is probably more density‐dependent in winter than in summer. Although the several tit species have much in common, and often eat the same foods, each species has evolved characteristic methods of feeding, with corresponding structural adaptations; and each species occupies a more or less distinct feeding‐niche. Copyright © 1954, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland	1	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1950	1951	Summer	Birds	Quercus robur; Sambucus nigra; Fraxinus excelsior; Corylus avellana; Betula sp.; Crataegus sp.; Ulmus glabra; Acer campestre; Salix sp.; Acer pseudoplatanus; Euonymus europaeus; Fagus sylvatica; Prunus spinosa; Viburnum lantana; Castanea sativa; Populus tremulus; Ligustrum vulgare; Malus pumila; Viburnum opulus; Pinus sylvestris; Cornus sanguinea; Carpinus betulus;; Parus major; Cyanistes caeruleus; Periparus ater; Poecile palustris; Poecile montanus; Aegithalos caudatus; Certhia familiaris; Regulus regulus;	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibb_1954	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibb, J. (1954). Feeding Ecology of Tits, With Notes on Treecreeper and Goldcrest. Ibis, 96(4) 513-543. 10.1111/j.1474-919X.1954.tb05476.x	1954	Gibb, J.	Feeding Ecology of Tits, With Notes on Treecreeper and Goldcrest	Ibis				10.1111/j.1474-919X.1954.tb05476.x	0019-1019	https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1474-919X.1954.tb05476.x	96	4	513-543	The feeding habits of the titmice, Treecreeper and Goldcrest were studied in a mixed broad‐leaved wood near Oxford, from April 1950 to August 1951, by means of repeated standard observations. The proportion of time spent feeding varied inversely with the body‐weight of the species. A greater proportion of the time was spent feeding in mid‐winter, and in the breeding season when young were being fed, than in spring or autumn. Feeding intensity varied similarly. Fighting for food was recorded most often in mid‐winter, and rarely in summer. Most attacks were intraspecific. Probably individuals gain or lose much food by fighting. Although adult birds search for food most of the time when feeding young, they preen then as often as at other times. The period and intensity of singing and calling was measured. This was often performed concurrently with other activities–mainly feeding–in the tits, least often by Great Tits, most often by Coal Tits. Distant flight was more often recorded in winter than in summer. The frequency with which the birds fed a in different species of trees and shrubs, and (6) at different feeding stations, varied significantly from month to month. The behaviour of the birds is described. The Parus species fed most diversely in autumn, and least diversely in early summer. Coal and Marsh Tits fed more diversely than Great and Blue Tits, which in turn fed more diversely than Longtailed Tits and Goldcrests. The tit species were more distinctly segregated from each other by feeding habit in winter than in summer. Food was especially short in mid‐winter and in the breeding season, and competition for food was most severe in mid‐winter. Hence mortality from food shortage is probably more density‐dependent in winter than in summer. Although the several tit species have much in common, and often eat the same foods, each species has evolved characteristic methods of feeding, with corresponding structural adaptations; and each species occupies a more or less distinct feeding‐niche. Copyright © 1954, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland	1	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1950	1951	Summer	Vascular plants	Quercus robur; Sambucus nigra; Fraxinus excelsior; Corylus avellana; Betula sp.; Crataegus sp.; Ulmus glabra; Acer campestre; Salix sp.; Acer pseudoplatanus; Euonymus europaeus; Fagus sylvatica; Prunus spinosa; Viburnum lantana; Castanea sativa; Populus tremulus; Ligustrum vulgare; Malus pumila; Viburnum opulus; Pinus sylvestris; Cornus sanguinea; Carpinus betulus;; Parus major; Cyanistes caeruleus; Periparus ater; Poecile palustris; Poecile montanus; Aegithalos caudatus; Certhia familiaris; Regulus regulus;	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibb_1950	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibb, J. (1950). the Breeding Biology of the Great and Blue Titmice. Ibis, 92(4) 507-539. 10.1111/j.1474-919X.1950.tb01759.x	1950	Gibb, J.	the Breeding Biology of the Great and Blue Titmice	Ibis				10.1111/j.1474-919X.1950.tb01759.x	0019-1019	https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1474-919X.1950.tb01759.x	92	4	507-539	The breeding biology of Parus major and P. caeruleus was studied in 1947–49 in a mixed deciduous wood, near Oxford, in which 200 nestboxes were erected (density about two per acre).  The combined Great and Blue Tit population rose from about 43 pairs in 1947 (following a very severe winter) to about 100 pairs in 1948, and about 135 pairs in 1949. Of these, nearly all the Great Tits and about two‐thirds of the Blue Tits nested in the boxes.  Pre‐nesting behaviour is briefly described; hole inspecting and courtship feeding were observed. The average time taken to build a nest differed in each season; both species built many more nests than were used for laying.  The breeding dates differed by two to three weeks in different years. The exact season is linked to the brief period of abundance of the larvae of Cheimatobia brumata and Hibernia defoliaria, on which the nestlings are largely fed. The seasonal rise and fall in the larval abundance were estimated by measuring the volume of faecal pellets from the larvae.  The average clutch‐size differed significantly from year to year. Clutches laid early in the season were on average larger than those laid later. Repeat clutches were smaller than first clutches, and genuine second clutches were smaller still.  Individual egg‐weights of the Great Tit ranged from 1.3 to 2.2 grams, and averaged 1.75 grams (no significant difference between years). Eggs from average‐sized clutches were heavier than those from very small or very large clutches. The first four to six eggs laid in a clutch tended to be successively heavier, but in general eggs in each clutch tended to be of similar weight. Clutches of the Blue Tit were weighed in one year only; the average individual egg‐weight was 1.11 grams.  Incubation tended to begin earlier, in relation to clutch completion, in late nests than in early ones. The mean incubation period of the Great Tit was 13.9 days, and of the Blue Tit 14.2 days.  The mean growth rates of Great Tits differed significantly in 1948 and 1949. The growth curve of Blue Tits is similar to that of the Great Tit.  Members of large‐sized broods averaged significantly lighter than members of small‐sized broods, and second‐brood nestlings were lighter than first‐brood nestlings. Great Tit nestlings aged 14 1/2 days ranged in weight from 10.2 to 21.4 grams. Less than 1% of the nestlings in first broods died from starvation in the nest, but there were many losses in second broods.  Eggs laid after the start of incubation hatched later than the rest of the clutch. Late‐hatched nestlings averaged significantly lighter than the others.  Frequency of parents' visits to the nest increases with number in brood, but not proportionately. Hence a member of a small‐sized brood receives on average more food visits than a member of a large‐sized brood.  Feather development was independent of body‐weight, and is therefore a reliable indicator of age.  The mean nestling period of the Great Tit was 18.9 days, of the Blue Tit 19.7 days.  When losses due to man are excluded, the breeding success was about 90% for each species. Copyright © 1950, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Grassland;Woodland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1946	1949	Spring;Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Periparus ater;Poecile palustris;Poecile montanus;Aegithalos caudatus	Abundance	Yes	No
Watt_1988	External	Journal Article	Watt, T.A., Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The effects of sheep grazing on seedling establishment and survival in grassland. Vegetatio, 78(44958) 91-98. 	1988	Watt, T.A., Gibson, C.W.D.	The effects of sheep grazing on seedling establishment and survival in grassland	Vegetatio					0042-3106		78	01/02/2023	91-98		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland		51.78475480399774,-1.3338962162562016	1986	1987	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Aphanes arvensis;Bromus mollis/sterilis;Cerastium holosteoides;Cirsium vulgare;Crepis capillaris;Geranium dissectum;Geranium molle;Glechoma hederacea;Kickxia elatine;Lapsana communis;Linum catharticum;Medicago lupulina;Myosotis arvensis;Odontites verna;Pastinaca sativa;Plantago media;Prunella vulgaris;Ranunculus parviflorus;Ranunculus repens;Rumex crispus;Senecio jacobaea;Sherardia arvensis;Sinapis arvensis;Veronica agrestis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica serpyllifolia;Vicia sativa	Other	Yes	No
Watts_1969	External	Journal Article	Watts, C.H.S. (1969). The regulation of wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) numbers in Wytham woods, Berkshire. Journal of Animal Ecology, 285-304. 	1969	Watts, C.H.S.	The regulation of wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) numbers in Wytham woods, Berkshire	Journal of Animal Ecology					0021-8790				285-304		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Marley Plantation/Marley Wood	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1961	1965	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
Watts_1969	External	Journal Article	Watts, C.H.S. (1969). The regulation of wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) numbers in Wytham woods, Berkshire. Journal of Animal Ecology, 285-304. 	1969	Watts, C.H.S.	The regulation of wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) numbers in Wytham woods, Berkshire	Journal of Animal Ecology					0021-8790				285-304		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Marley Plantation/Marley Wood	Woodland		51.76190392,-1.3003382	1961	1965	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
Woodcock_2006	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Woodcock, B.A., Lawson, C.S., Mann, D.J., McDonald, A.W. (2006). Effects of grazing management on beetle and plant assemblages during the re-creation of a flood-plain meadow. Agriculture, ecosystems & environment, 116(45019) 225-234. 	2006	Woodcock, B.A., Lawson, C.S., Mann, D.J., McDonald, A.W.	Effects of grazing management on beetle and plant assemblages during the re-creation of a flood-plain meadow	Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment					0167-8809		116	03/04/2023	225-234		Wytham Estate	Somerford Mead	Grassland		51.784444,-1.311944	2004	2004	Not Reported	Insects	Staphylinidae;Elateridae;Apioninae	Abundance;Richness	No	No
Woodcock_2011	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Woodcock, B.A., McDonald, A.W., Pywell, R.F. (2011). Can long‐term floodplain meadow recreation replicate species composition and functional characteristics of target grasslands?. Journal of Applied Ecology, 48(5) 1070-1078. 	2011	Woodcock, B.A., McDonald, A.W., Pywell, R.F.	Can long‐term floodplain meadow recreation replicate species composition and functional characteristics of target grasslands?	Journal of Applied Ecology					0021-8901		48	5	1070-1078		Wytham Estate	Somerford Mead	Grassland		51.78461503,-1.335164948	1991	2009	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Matricaria perforate;Stellaria media;Bromus hordeaceus;Deschampsia cespitosa;Rhinanthus minor;Ranunculus bulbosus;Anthoxanthum odoratum;Centaurea nigra;Carex hirta;Ophioglossum vulgatum;Poa pratensis;Rumex acetosa;Plantago lanceolata;Carex panicea;Alopecurus pratensis;Sanguisorba officinalis;Fritillaria meleagris;Succisa pratensis;Luzula campestris;Serratula tinctoria;Stachys betonica;Carex acutiformis;Juncus articularis;Cirsium palustre;Caltha palustris;Achillea millefolia;Potentilla anglica;Vicia sepium;Bromus erectus	Abundance;Other	Yes	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Amphibians		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Arachnids		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Birds		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Entognatha		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Fungi		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Insects		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Lichen		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Mammals		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Molluscs		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Myriapods		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	Nematodes		Other	No	No
Elton_	External	Miscellaneous	Elton, C.S. (). Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965. 	multiple	Elton, C.S.	Elton Archive: notes on the Wytham Area 1942-1965							http://ora.ox.ac.uk/objects/uuid:89c5e479-6003-45ba-bd78-8a8a12858bf1					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable;Wetlands;Farmland;Grassland;Pasture;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	1944	All Year	AmphibiansVascular plants		Other	No	No
Butt_2009	External	Report	Butt, N., Campbell, G., Malhi, Y., Morecroft, M., Fenn, K., Thomas, M. (2009). Initial Results from Establishment of a Long-term Broadleaf Monitoring Plot at Wytham Woods, Oxford, UK. , 86 pp.. 	2009	Butt, N., Campbell, G., Malhi, Y., Morecroft, M., Fenn, K., Thomas, M.	Initial Results from Establishment of a Long-term Broadleaf Monitoring Plot at Wytham Woods, Oxford, UK		Oxford, UK	University of Oxford							86 pp.	The site of Wytham Woods (1o20W, 51o47N; Figure 1.1) is located approximately five kilometres north west of the ancient university city of Oxford, in southern England. The site was given to Oxford University in 1943 and since then has become one of, if not the most researched woodland in Europe - birds, mammals and invertebrates have been intensively studied here. Now, through the support of the Smithsonian Institution and the financial support of HSBC bank, this site has become the first European site associated with the Smithsonian Institution Global Earth Observatories (SIGEO) programme, a global network that is expanding from its foundations as the Centre for Tropical Forest Science (CTFS) network of tropical forest plots to a number of temperate forest sites. In conjunction with the ongoing ecology work, and with parallel initiatives in carbon cycle studies and satellite remote sensing, Wytham promises to be one of the world’s leading research sites in temperate forest ecology and function, and a key long-term observatory that will explore how global atmospheric change may affect this ecology and function.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	2009	2009	Spring;Summer	Non-Vascular plants	Alliaria petiolata;Allium ursinum;Angelica sylvestris;Arum macalatum;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Eurynchium praelogum;Brachythecium rutabulum;Plagiomnium undulatum;Carex pendula;Carex sylvatica;Circaea lutetiana;Conopodium majus;Convolvulus arvensis;Deschampsia cespitosa;Dryopteris filix-mas;Endymion non-scripta;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Galium aparine;Geum urbanum;Glechoma hederacea;Lamiastrum galeobdolon;Mercurialis perennis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Poa trivialis;Primula vulgaris;Pteridium aquilinum;Ranunculus ficaria;Ranunculus repens;Rubus fruticosus;Rumex acetosa;Taraxacum officianale;Urtica dioica;Viola riviana;Viola reichenbachiana	Community Composition	Yes	Yes
Butt_2009	External	Report	Butt, N., Campbell, G., Malhi, Y., Morecroft, M., Fenn, K., Thomas, M. (2009). Initial Results from Establishment of a Long-term Broadleaf Monitoring Plot at Wytham Woods, Oxford, UK. , 86 pp.. 	2009	Butt, N., Campbell, G., Malhi, Y., Morecroft, M., Fenn, K., Thomas, M.	Initial Results from Establishment of a Long-term Broadleaf Monitoring Plot at Wytham Woods, Oxford, UK		Oxford, UK	University of Oxford							86 pp.	The site of Wytham Woods (1o20W, 51o47N; Figure 1.1) is located approximately five kilometres north west of the ancient university city of Oxford, in southern England. The site was given to Oxford University in 1943 and since then has become one of, if not the most researched woodland in Europe - birds, mammals and invertebrates have been intensively studied here. Now, through the support of the Smithsonian Institution and the financial support of HSBC bank, this site has become the first European site associated with the Smithsonian Institution Global Earth Observatories (SIGEO) programme, a global network that is expanding from its foundations as the Centre for Tropical Forest Science (CTFS) network of tropical forest plots to a number of temperate forest sites. In conjunction with the ongoing ecology work, and with parallel initiatives in carbon cycle studies and satellite remote sensing, Wytham promises to be one of the world’s leading research sites in temperate forest ecology and function, and a key long-term observatory that will explore how global atmospheric change may affect this ecology and function.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	2009	2009	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Alliaria petiolata;Allium ursinum;Angelica sylvestris;Arum macalatum;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Eurynchium praelogum;Brachythecium rutabulum;Plagiomnium undulatum;Carex pendula;Carex sylvatica;Circaea lutetiana;Conopodium majus;Convolvulus arvensis;Deschampsia cespitosa;Dryopteris filix-mas;Endymion non-scripta;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Galium aparine;Geum urbanum;Glechoma hederacea;Lamiastrum galeobdolon;Mercurialis perennis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Poa trivialis;Primula vulgaris;Pteridium aquilinum;Ranunculus ficaria;Ranunculus repens;Rubus fruticosus;Rumex acetosa;Taraxacum officianale;Urtica dioica;Viola riviana;Viola reichenbachiana	Community Composition	Yes	Yes
Horsfall_1992	Solo (Print)	Report	Horsfall, A.S, Kirby, K.J. (1992). The use of permanent quadrats to record changes in the structure and composition of Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. . Research and survey in nature conservation, 1. 16 pp.. 	1992	Horsfall, A.S, Kirby, K.J.	The use of permanent quadrats to record changes in the structure and composition of Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. 	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council					1		16 pp.	Between 1973 and 1976, 163 quadrats, each 100 m², were recorded in a systematic distribution through Wytham Woods in Oxfordshire. Previously unpublished results from these plots are used to describe the structure and composition of the wood. 21 quadrats were re-recorded in 1984. Changes in these plots in the intervening period are described. Between 1973 and 1976, 163 quadrats were laid out in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire, to test a system for the long-term surveillance of British woodland vegetation (Dawkins & Field 1978). (Most of the recording took place in 1974 and for convenience this date only is used to refer to this work.) This paper uses unpublished results from these plots to examine the structure and composition of the wood and analyses changes in some of the plots 10 years later	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		SP460085	1974	1984	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Anemone nemorosa;Arum maculatum;Carex pendula;Chamaenerion angustifolium;Corylus avellana;Endymion non-scriptus;Endymion non-scriptus ;Festuca gigantea;Geum urbanum;Ranunculus ficaria;Sambucus nigra	Community Composition	Yes	No
Bradshaw_1993	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Bradshaw, E.L.,(1993). Social and ecological determinants of food availability in the brown hare, Lepus europaeus Pallas. Thesis, University of Oxford, 165 pp.. 	1993	Bradshaw, E.L., Macdonald, D.W.	Social and ecological determinants of food availability in the brown hare, Lepus europaeus Pallas		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						165 pp.	Relate hare numbers and farmland habitat, specificaly food availability using traps, nets.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable	1	51.783878,-1.31528451.768935,-1.329199	1991	1993		Mammals	Lepus europaeus	Abundance	Yes	No
Brereton_1955	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Brereton, J.Le G. (1955). A study of factors controlling the population of some terrestrial isopds. Thesis, University of Oxford , 101 pp.. 	1955	Brereton, J.Le G.	A study of factors controlling the population of some terrestrial isopds		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						101 pp.	The distribution of woodland Isopods was debenned by ayatentically the various habitats of a broad-leaved wood in suzer and vinter; day and night. This work was done in Wytham estate. During the winter Trichoniscus pusillus, Philosola corus, and Oniagus asellus remain inactive to a large degree, while Porcellio scab shelters under the moss and bark on the trunks of oak, ash, and sycamor trees. When summer comes they disperse, T. pusillus going to the litter and dead wood, E. muncorus to the litter, E. scaber to the upper parts of the trees, and 0. ssella to the dead wood and base and upper parts of trees. P. scaber is thus found to be virtually a tree-dwelling Isop and this localisation of populations makes it an especially suitable animal for population research. Accordingly, work was concentrated on the seasonal changes in structure, size and behaviour of P. scaber populations, using a combin- ation of field and laboratory techniques. First the relationship of length of the female to number of young and Juveniles was determined from field material. It was found that the maber of eggs, and the manber of young carried in the brood-pouch increases linearly with length of the mother. However, the number of young was less than the washer of eggs by 20%, indicating a brood-pouch mortality of that amount. Then survival of the adults in the laboratory was measured under six conditions of density, and it was found that no change occurred in the survival rate either with age or denalty.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1953	1955		Crustaceans	Porcellio scaber;Oniscus asellus;Philoscia muscorum;Trichoniscus spp.;Armadillidium spp.	Other;Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.76980382,-1.329488932	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.77508713,-1.34234991	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.76927122,-1.342327549	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.77758558,-1.32748523	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.7582,-1.3300	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.76980382,-1.329488932	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.77508713,-1.34234991	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.76927122,-1.342327549	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Don_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Don, B.A.C. (1981). Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis).Thesis, University of Oxford , 236 pp.. 	1981	Don, B.A.C.	Spatial dynamics and individual quality in a population of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						236 pp.	[ see jpeg]Compare high- and low-damage areas to assess what processes determine the number of squirrels present in damage-prone habitats when damage occurs	Wytham Estate	Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft ;Bean Wood;Brogden's Belt;Great Plain;Five Sisters;Common Piece;Thorny Croft 	Woodland	5 (85 traps)	51.77758558,-1.32748523	1978	1981	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	Yes	No
Duffey_1955	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Duffey, E.A.G. (1955). An ecological study of the spider (araneae) communities in limestone grassland.Thesis, University of Oxford , 245 pp.. 	1955	Duffey, E.A.G.	An ecological study of the spider (araneae) communities in limestone grassland		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						245 pp.	population study of spiders as influenced by flora	Wytham Estate	Sunday's Hill, Bowling Alley	Grassland	2	51.76428061,-1.33040249	1951	1952	Not Reported	Arachnids		Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Duffey_1955	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Duffey, E.A.G. (1955). An ecological study of the spider (araneae) communities in limestone grassland.Thesis, University of Oxford , 245 pp.. 	1955	Duffey, E.A.G.	An ecological study of the spider (araneae) communities in limestone grassland		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						245 pp.	population study of spiders as influenced by flora	Wytham Estate	Sunday's Hill, Bowling Alley	Grassland	2	51.76428061,-1.33040249	1951	1952	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Efford_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Efford, I.E. (1960). A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina). Thesis, University of Oxford, 115 pp.. 	1960	Efford, I.E.	A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						115 pp.	Assess distribution and general ecology of F romijni, with some abundance data	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood	Stream	2	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1958	1959	Not Reported	Arachnids	Feltria romijni;Feltria rouxi;Feltria conjuncta;	Abundance	Yes	No
Efford_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Efford, I.E. (1960). A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina). Thesis, University of Oxford, 115 pp.. 	1960	Efford, I.E.	A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						115 pp.	Assess distribution and general ecology of F romijni, with some abundance data	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood	Stream	2	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1958	1959	Not Reported	Arachnids	Feltria romijni;Feltria rouxi;Feltria conjuncta;	Abundance	Yes	No
Efford_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Efford, I.E. (1960). A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina). Thesis, University of Oxford, 115 pp.. 	1960	Efford, I.E.	A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						115 pp.	Assess distribution and general ecology of F romijni, with some abundance data	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood	Stream	2	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1958	1959	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Feltria romijni;Feltria rouxi;Feltria conjuncta;	Abundance	Yes	No
Efford_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Efford, I.E. (1960). A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina). Thesis, University of Oxford, 115 pp.. 	1960	Efford, I.E.	A population study on water-mites (Hydracarina)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						115 pp.	Assess distribution and general ecology of F romijni, with some abundance data	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood	Stream	2	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1958	1959	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Feltria romijni;Feltria rouxi;Feltria conjuncta;	Abundance	Yes	No
Garcia_1981	Solo (Digital)	Thesis	Garcia, E.F. (1981). An experimental and observational study of interspecific territoriality between the blackcap Sylvia atricapilla (Linnaeus) and the Garden warbler Sylvia borin (Eoddaert). Thesis, University of Oxford , 161-161. 	1981	Garcia, E.F.	An experimental and observational study of interspecific territoriality between the blackcap Sylvia atricapilla (Linnaeus) and the Garden warbler Sylvia borin (Eoddaert)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						161-161		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1962	1980	Not Reported	Birds	Sylvia atricapilla;Sylvia borin	Other;Population Density	Yes	No
Gibb_1919	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibb, J.A. (1953). Factors governing population density of birds of the genus Parus. Thesis, University of Oxford, 166 pp.. 	1953	Gibb, J.A.	Factors governing population density of birds of the genus Parus		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						166 pp.	The work described in this thesis was undertaken as part of the research programme into bird populations carried out at the Edward Grey Institute, Oxford. The particular problem was whether lack of food might be an important factor control- ling the numbers of titmice (Paridae). This was tackled. indirectly, since it is usually impossible to measure the availability of food to birds in the field, even if the numbers of the birds and their food are known. Observations were made (a) on breeding biology from 1947-1951, and (b) on feeding behaviour in 1950 and 1951. The field-work was conducted in Marley Wood and adjacent parts of the University Estate at Wytham, Oxford. The habitat was of mixed broad- leaved trees, with a locally dense shrub layer and many open spaces. Oak was the dominant species of tree, with ash, birch, wych-elm, sycamore and beach also common. The shrub layer contained mainly elder, hazel, hawthorn and maple. Six members of the Paridae were resident: Great Tit Parus major, Blue Tit, P. caeruleus, Coal Tit Pater, Marsh Tit P. palustris, Willow Tit P. atricapillus and Longtailed Tit Aegithalos asudatus. The habitat was typical for all except the Coal Tit, which is primarily a bird of coniferous forest. The greatest number of tits was present immediately after the breeding season. The juveniles dispersed as soon as they were independent of their parents. Numbers fell steeply during July and August, then less steeply to a minimum in January-February; they then rose again slightly just before the breeding season. In the severe late winter of 1946/47, all Great and Blue Tits and about half the Marsh Tits disappeared from the wood. Many tits congregated round farmsteads, villages and the residential districts of Oxford. Some returned immediately after the thaw in mid-March. In the subsequent, rather mild winters, some of the Great and Blue Tits and a few Marsh Tits left the wood and returned in spring. This suggests that life in the woods in more rigorous in winter than elsewhere, and that the density of titmice staying in the woods partly depends on the severity of the weather. Conclusion: 1. The availability of food probably limits the number of young that can be reared. 2. Intraspecific competition for food is probably more severe in winter than in summer. Hence mortality due to food shortage in winter will be strictly density dependent, and may be critical in controlling population density. Heavy mortality among juvenile birds in late summer may be unimportant in the control of population density. 3. Each species occupies a different feeding niche. Interspecific competition for food is so reduced that five members of the genus Parus are able to live together in the same habitat.	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation	Woodland	1	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1947	1951	All Year	Birds	Parus major;Parus caeruleus;Periparus ater;Parus palustris;Parus atricapillus;Aegithalos asudatus	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Gibson_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibson, C.W.D. (1976). The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L..Thesis, University of Oxford , 222 pp.. 	1976	Gibson, C.W.D.	The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						222 pp.	investgate relationships of 6 insect spcies to each other and their environemnt, and competition between 2 species	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell;Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	1	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1974	1975	Not Reported	Insects	Megaloceraea recticornis;Leptoterna dolabrata;Leptoterna ferrugata;Notostira elongata;Stenodema laevigatum;Myrmus miriformis	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibson, C.W.D. (1976). The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L..Thesis, University of Oxford , 222 pp.. 	1976	Gibson, C.W.D.	The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						222 pp.	investgate relationships of 6 insect spcies to each other and their environemnt, and competition between 2 species	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell;Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	1	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1974	1975	Not Reported	Insects	Megaloceraea recticornis;Leptoterna dolabrata;Leptoterna ferrugata;Notostira elongata;Stenodema laevigatum;Myrmus miriformis	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibson, C.W.D. (1976). The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L..Thesis, University of Oxford , 222 pp.. 	1976	Gibson, C.W.D.	The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						222 pp.	investgate relationships of 6 insect spcies to each other and their environemnt, and competition between 2 species	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell;Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	1	51.76828124,-1.329592592	1974	1975	Not Reported	Insects	Megaloceraea recticornis;Leptoterna dolabrata;Leptoterna ferrugata;Notostira elongata;Stenodema laevigatum;Myrmus miriformis	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibson, C.W.D. (1976). The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L..Thesis, University of Oxford , 222 pp.. 	1976	Gibson, C.W.D.	The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						222 pp.	investgate relationships of 6 insect spcies to each other and their environemnt, and competition between 2 species	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell;Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	1	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1974	1975	Not Reported	Insects	Megaloceraea recticornis;Leptoterna dolabrata;Leptoterna ferrugata;Notostira elongata;Stenodema laevigatum;Myrmus miriformis	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibson, C.W.D. (1976). The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L..Thesis, University of Oxford , 222 pp.. 	1976	Gibson, C.W.D.	The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						222 pp.	investgate relationships of 6 insect spcies to each other and their environemnt, and competition between 2 species	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell;Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	1	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1974	1975	Not Reported	Insects	Megaloceraea recticornis;Leptoterna dolabrata;Leptoterna ferrugata;Notostira elongata;Stenodema laevigatum;Myrmus miriformis	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gibson, C.W.D. (1976). The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L..Thesis, University of Oxford , 222 pp.. 	1976	Gibson, C.W.D.	The biology of Heteroptera associated with tor grass, Brachypodium pinnatum L.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						222 pp.	investgate relationships of 6 insect spcies to each other and their environemnt, and competition between 2 species	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell;Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	1	51.76828124,-1.329592592	1974	1975	Not Reported	Insects	Megaloceraea recticornis;Leptoterna dolabrata;Leptoterna ferrugata;Notostira elongata;Stenodema laevigatum;Myrmus miriformis	Abundance	Yes	No
Godfrey_1953	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Godfrey, G.K. (1953). Factors affecting the survival, movements, and intraspecific relations during early life in populations of small mammals with particular reference to the vole. Thesis, University of Oxford , 215 pp.. 	1953	Godfrey, G.K.	Factors affecting the survival, movements, and intraspecific relations during early life in populations of small mammals with particular reference to the vole		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						215 pp.	Investigate habits of vole, food, movements, social relations, survival of young.	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	2	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1949	1950	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;	Other	No	No
Godfrey_1953	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Godfrey, G.K. (1953). Factors affecting the survival, movements, and intraspecific relations during early life in populations of small mammals with particular reference to the vole. Thesis, University of Oxford , 215 pp.. 	1953	Godfrey, G.K.	Factors affecting the survival, movements, and intraspecific relations during early life in populations of small mammals with particular reference to the vole		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						215 pp.	Investigate habits of vole, food, movements, social relations, survival of young.	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	2	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1949	1950	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;	Other	No	No
Godfrey_1953	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Godfrey, G.K. (1953). Factors affecting the survival, movements, and intraspecific relations during early life in populations of small mammals with particular reference to the vole. Thesis, University of Oxford , 215 pp.. 	1953	Godfrey, G.K.	Factors affecting the survival, movements, and intraspecific relations during early life in populations of small mammals with particular reference to the vole		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						215 pp.	Investigate habits of vole, food, movements, social relations, survival of young.	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland	2	51.76828124,-1.329592592	1949	1950	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;	Other	No	No
Gray_1987	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Gray, I.L. (1987). The feeding ecology of the sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus outside the breeding season. Thesis, University of Oxford, 242 pp.. 	1987	Gray, I.L., Perrins, C.M., Newton, I.	The feeding ecology of the sparrowhawk Accipiter nisus outside the breeding season		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						242 pp.	The present study of Sparrowhawk feeding ecology assessed the effect of hawk predation on tit populations Parus spp. in Wytham Wood, Oxford in winter.  The resident winter Sparrowhawk population was estimated at 12 males and 13  females, based on trapping results. As the winter progressed, mean body weights of all age/sex categories declined, corresponding to declining food supplies. High body weights at the start of winter increased hawks!  chances of surviving the winter.  Radio telemetry of 26 hawks revealed large variations in range size both within and between age/sex categories. All hawks centred winter activities on their main roost-site, which corresponded to summer nest-sites in adult birds. All hawks preferred woodland for hunting and roosting, but females used farmland more than males, relating to their exploitation of different prey populations. Habitat edges were preferred for hunting by all hawks. Ranges overlapped widely both within and between age/sex categories. Four main hunting techniques were identified, with choice determined mainly by habitat. In each habitat, the most successful technique was used the most. Adults were more successful at hunting than juveniles. Hawks spent 25% of the day hunting, and 18% of observed attacks were successful. A peak of hunting behaviour was found in early morning, which corresponded to the timing of known kills (88% made before noon). Consumption of prey generally inhibited further hunting, and hawks responded to increasing hunger by increasing flight activity. Hunting was concentrated in high prey density areas, and prey were usually taken to cover prior to handling and consumption. The larger the prey the larger the consumption period, and some evidence indicated prey caching.  Hawk diet was dominated by songbirds (tits by number and thrushes and pigeons by weight). Diet composition varied with area, period and winter, reflecting changes in availability and distribution of Wytham avifauna. Factors affecting vulnerability of different prey species are discussed. An estimated 25-64% of each age category of the tit population were killed by hawks each winter. The effects of these losses on the structure of the tit breeding population is discussed. Selection of individual tits is analysed. Results indicated that different tit species were selected according to vulnerability, while no preference was shown for adult or Juveniles of either tit species.  Various aspects of the Sparrowhawk winter ecology are discussed, including: winter range and territoriality, foraging strategies, winter survival and the impact of hawk predation on tit populations.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Woodland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1982	1985	Winter	Birds	Accipiter nisus;Parus major;Parus caeruleus	Other	Yes	No
Heeb_1991	Solo (Digital)	Thesis	Heeb, P.A. (1991). Some aspects of the breeding biology of the jackdaw (Corvus monedula). Thesis, University of Oxford 	1991	Heeb, P.A., Perrins, C.M.	Some aspects of the breeding biology of the jackdaw (Corvus monedula)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate							The breeding biology of the Jackdaw was studied over three years in a population in Wytham woods (Oxfordshire). The density of nest-boxes were experimentally manipulated in order to study some simple ecological parameters of the breeding strategy of the Jackdaw in relation to nest distribution. This preliminary study indicated that breeding synchronisation, within a population of Jackdaws, does not vary between years and is not related to the nest density. Furthermore, Jackdaws did not seem to prefer either grouped or solitary nests, but, on the whole, the breeding success of birds that settled in the most isolated boxes was higher. The effect of various factors on the breeding biology of the Jackdaws, with regard to the brood reduction hypothesis, were investigated. 1- Factors influencing the patterns of egg variation. The intra-clutch variation of egg-size was consistent with the "brood reduction hypothesis'; egg-size decreased with laying sequence and the difference between the last egg in the clutch and the clutch mean increased with clutch-size. The patterns of egg variation were rather constant, even when facing varying breeding conditions. 2- Factors influencing the length of incubation. There were no seasonal or yearly differences in hatching intervals, suggesting that incubation pattern is constant in Jackdaws. The incubation period decreased with laying order and hatching interval increased with clutch-size. The Jackdaws started incubation with the first egg and successful breeders incubated their eggs more efficiently than unsuccessful ones. Effect of egg-size variation and hatching asynchrony. The Jackdaws did not appear to modify their hatching interval in relation to changing environmental conditions. Pairs that increased quickly the weight differences in the brood fledged more young. Hatching asynchrony resulted in high and early mortality of the chicks which hatched from the last eggs in the clutch. The function of hatching asynchrony was experimentally tested by manipulating, during one year, the hatching intervals. Jackdaws appeared to have an 'optimal' level of hatching asynchrony and any deviation from it resulted in a slight decrease in their breeding success. Brood reduction was common in this study and took place later in synchronous broods. It can be concluded that Jackdaws hatch their eggs asynchronously in order to adjust the brood-size in the most efficient way. Lack's hypothesis seems to be the most likely explanation for hatching asynchrony in Jackdaws.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1986	1988	Spring	Birds	Corvus monedula	Other	Yes	No
Hunt_1999	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Hunt, M. (1999). Spatial variation of changes in great tit Parus major breeding parameters, a response to deer-related habitat degradation? : a study of ecosystem interactions and a possible warning for woodland management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 87 pp.. 	1999	Hunt, M.	Spatial variation of changes in great tit Parus major breeding parameters, a response to deer-related habitat degradation? : a study of ecosystem interactions and a possible warning for woodland management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						87 pp.	The direct effects on the environment of anthropogenically-induced habitat change through urbanisation, expansion of agriculture and the effects of the timber trade, among others, have been studied for many years at a range of spatial scales. Habitat degradation through overgrazing by herbivores, often seen as a zoogenic impact although associated problems often have their roots in human action, has also been studied. However, such studies are usually limited to the immediate effects on vegetation. Although it is increasingly recognised that impacts spread throughout the ecosystem, studies quantifying this have been limited. In this study the effects of woodland habitat change on the great tit Parus major are investigated in a small and isolated deciduous woodland outside Oxford, UK. Habitat change in this instance I° most notably a reduction of the ground and shrub layers by increasing deer populations. Data from two separate habitat surveys, carried out in 1974 (before the deer populations dramatically increased) and 1991 (when the populations were reaching their maxima and effects in the woodland were becoming visible), are used to infer levels of deer-related habitat degradation in a series of plots around the wood. Using great tit breeding data for the years around these surveys, collected and collated by the Edward Grey Institute for Field Ornithology Department of Zoology, Oxford University), levels of grazing are correlated with changes in the life-history strategies of the birds, reflected in several named breeding parameters. Although several possible correlations between habitat changes and changes in these breeding parameters are presented, only the relationship between habitat change and clutch size remained after multivariate analysis. That any response to habitat change was exhibited by such a generalist species, with such wide tolerance of habitat type, suggests that other species, particularly those with more specific ecologies, may also be affected by deer grazing. It is therefore suggested that until work at Wytham and elsewhere can identify and either disprove or mitigate for such effects, the current policy of deer management should continue. In many areas deer populations, particularly of muntjac Muntiacus reeves, have increased to the extent that they have become a danger to ecosystem stability; particular effort should be made to prevent this from becoming the case at Wytham. In the meantime, managers should be aware of the network of interactions within ecosystems and the potential for activities such as deer grazing to destabilise whole systems. Managers should be mindful of the non-obvious ecosystem interactions such as that exhibited here between deer and a bird species. Further investigation of the nestbox data assessed variations attributable to the altitude and aspect of the nestboxes. Although the altitudinal gradient at Wytham is not large, it is suggested that the great tit may exhibit a response to it. Such a conclusion is drawn tentatively. A surprising effect of slope aspect on nestbox choice is also reported and discussed. It is proposed that more work could be carried out in a similar area to this project. The great tit has a very wide habitat tolerance and while little effect was discernible from the extant datasets, anecdotal effects of deer populations elsewhere suggest that effects on other small animals should be assessed. This will help develop a better understanding of the way non-obvious interactions filter through ecosystems and broaden our general understanding of woodland and other processes. The study aimed to compare breeding parameters of great tit at two different time periods to assess possible correlation with habitat degradation caused by deer before and after a major deer cull.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	91	51.767046,-1.328857	1973;1990	1975;1992	Not Reported	BirdsInsects	Parus major;Operophtera brumata;Dama dama;Muntiacus reevesi;Capreolus capreolus	Other	Yes	No
Hunt_1999	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Hunt, M. (1999). Spatial variation of changes in great tit Parus major breeding parameters, a response to deer-related habitat degradation? : a study of ecosystem interactions and a possible warning for woodland management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 87 pp.. 	1999	Hunt, M.	Spatial variation of changes in great tit Parus major breeding parameters, a response to deer-related habitat degradation? : a study of ecosystem interactions and a possible warning for woodland management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						87 pp.	The direct effects on the environment of anthropogenically-induced habitat change through urbanisation, expansion of agriculture and the effects of the timber trade, among others, have been studied for many years at a range of spatial scales. Habitat degradation through overgrazing by herbivores, often seen as a zoogenic impact although associated problems often have their roots in human action, has also been studied. However, such studies are usually limited to the immediate effects on vegetation. Although it is increasingly recognised that impacts spread throughout the ecosystem, studies quantifying this have been limited. In this study the effects of woodland habitat change on the great tit Parus major are investigated in a small and isolated deciduous woodland outside Oxford, UK. Habitat change in this instance I° most notably a reduction of the ground and shrub layers by increasing deer populations. Data from two separate habitat surveys, carried out in 1974 (before the deer populations dramatically increased) and 1991 (when the populations were reaching their maxima and effects in the woodland were becoming visible), are used to infer levels of deer-related habitat degradation in a series of plots around the wood. Using great tit breeding data for the years around these surveys, collected and collated by the Edward Grey Institute for Field Ornithology Department of Zoology, Oxford University), levels of grazing are correlated with changes in the life-history strategies of the birds, reflected in several named breeding parameters. Although several possible correlations between habitat changes and changes in these breeding parameters are presented, only the relationship between habitat change and clutch size remained after multivariate analysis. That any response to habitat change was exhibited by such a generalist species, with such wide tolerance of habitat type, suggests that other species, particularly those with more specific ecologies, may also be affected by deer grazing. It is therefore suggested that until work at Wytham and elsewhere can identify and either disprove or mitigate for such effects, the current policy of deer management should continue. In many areas deer populations, particularly of muntjac Muntiacus reeves, have increased to the extent that they have become a danger to ecosystem stability; particular effort should be made to prevent this from becoming the case at Wytham. In the meantime, managers should be aware of the network of interactions within ecosystems and the potential for activities such as deer grazing to destabilise whole systems. Managers should be mindful of the non-obvious ecosystem interactions such as that exhibited here between deer and a bird species. Further investigation of the nestbox data assessed variations attributable to the altitude and aspect of the nestboxes. Although the altitudinal gradient at Wytham is not large, it is suggested that the great tit may exhibit a response to it. Such a conclusion is drawn tentatively. A surprising effect of slope aspect on nestbox choice is also reported and discussed. It is proposed that more work could be carried out in a similar area to this project. The great tit has a very wide habitat tolerance and while little effect was discernible from the extant datasets, anecdotal effects of deer populations elsewhere suggest that effects on other small animals should be assessed. This will help develop a better understanding of the way non-obvious interactions filter through ecosystems and broaden our general understanding of woodland and other processes. The study aimed to compare breeding parameters of great tit at two different time periods to assess possible correlation with habitat degradation caused by deer before and after a major deer cull.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	91	51.767046,-1.328857	1973;1990	1975;1992	Not Reported	BirdsMammals	Parus major;Operophtera brumata;Dama dama;Muntiacus reevesi;Capreolus capreolus	Other	Yes	No
Hunt_1999	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Hunt, M. (1999). Spatial variation of changes in great tit Parus major breeding parameters, a response to deer-related habitat degradation? : a study of ecosystem interactions and a possible warning for woodland management. Thesis, University of Oxford, 87 pp.. 	1999	Hunt, M.	Spatial variation of changes in great tit Parus major breeding parameters, a response to deer-related habitat degradation? : a study of ecosystem interactions and a possible warning for woodland management		Oxford	University of Oxford	Masters						87 pp.	The direct effects on the environment of anthropogenically-induced habitat change through urbanisation, expansion of agriculture and the effects of the timber trade, among others, have been studied for many years at a range of spatial scales. Habitat degradation through overgrazing by herbivores, often seen as a zoogenic impact although associated problems often have their roots in human action, has also been studied. However, such studies are usually limited to the immediate effects on vegetation. Although it is increasingly recognised that impacts spread throughout the ecosystem, studies quantifying this have been limited. In this study the effects of woodland habitat change on the great tit Parus major are investigated in a small and isolated deciduous woodland outside Oxford, UK. Habitat change in this instance I° most notably a reduction of the ground and shrub layers by increasing deer populations. Data from two separate habitat surveys, carried out in 1974 (before the deer populations dramatically increased) and 1991 (when the populations were reaching their maxima and effects in the woodland were becoming visible), are used to infer levels of deer-related habitat degradation in a series of plots around the wood. Using great tit breeding data for the years around these surveys, collected and collated by the Edward Grey Institute for Field Ornithology Department of Zoology, Oxford University), levels of grazing are correlated with changes in the life-history strategies of the birds, reflected in several named breeding parameters. Although several possible correlations between habitat changes and changes in these breeding parameters are presented, only the relationship between habitat change and clutch size remained after multivariate analysis. That any response to habitat change was exhibited by such a generalist species, with such wide tolerance of habitat type, suggests that other species, particularly those with more specific ecologies, may also be affected by deer grazing. It is therefore suggested that until work at Wytham and elsewhere can identify and either disprove or mitigate for such effects, the current policy of deer management should continue. In many areas deer populations, particularly of muntjac Muntiacus reeves, have increased to the extent that they have become a danger to ecosystem stability; particular effort should be made to prevent this from becoming the case at Wytham. In the meantime, managers should be aware of the network of interactions within ecosystems and the potential for activities such as deer grazing to destabilise whole systems. Managers should be mindful of the non-obvious ecosystem interactions such as that exhibited here between deer and a bird species. Further investigation of the nestbox data assessed variations attributable to the altitude and aspect of the nestboxes. Although the altitudinal gradient at Wytham is not large, it is suggested that the great tit may exhibit a response to it. Such a conclusion is drawn tentatively. A surprising effect of slope aspect on nestbox choice is also reported and discussed. It is proposed that more work could be carried out in a similar area to this project. The great tit has a very wide habitat tolerance and while little effect was discernible from the extant datasets, anecdotal effects of deer populations elsewhere suggest that effects on other small animals should be assessed. This will help develop a better understanding of the way non-obvious interactions filter through ecosystems and broaden our general understanding of woodland and other processes. The study aimed to compare breeding parameters of great tit at two different time periods to assess possible correlation with habitat degradation caused by deer before and after a major deer cull.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	91	51.767046,-1.328857	1973;1990	1975;1992	Not Reported	BirdsInsects	Parus major;Operophtera brumata;Dama dama;Muntiacus reevesi;Capreolus capreolus	Other	Yes	No
Kirby_1997	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Kirby, A. (1997). The ecological effects of low intensity trampling on ancient woodland flora. Thesis, University of Lancaster, 101 pp.. 	1997	Kirby, A.	The ecological effects of low intensity trampling on ancient woodland flora		Lancaster	Lancaster	Undergraduate						101 pp.	Trampling is one of the many effects of recreational activities that can have a detrimental affect on the natural environment. This study aimed to identify early effects of trampling on vegetation in an ancient woodland Wytham wood was chosen as the site to study the effects of low intensity trampling levels on the woodland ground flora  Data on percentage cover of species, soil pH and light intensity readings were collected from twelve transects. Six of the transects were taken across footpaths and six in secluded areas for comparison  TWINSPAN analysis was used to classify samples in terms of the species they contained and Canonical Correspondence analysis was used to plot samples and species with the environmental variables to see if there was any correlation Simple linear regression and multiple regression were employed to look for a linear relationship between distance from footpaths (and therefore trampling) and species richness.  The results failed to find an increase in species richness with increasing distance from footpaths or a change in composition reflected along all the footpath transects. The TWINSPAN analysis did however, identify a different composition of species in secluded areas in contrast to areas near footpaths. The Canonical Correspondence analysis and the regression failed to find a strong relationship between composition and the environmental variables which leaves the pattern identified by TWINSPAN open to other influences.  The study concludes that although no evidence was found to show a change in vegetation at the impacted site, the overall contrast in species composition between the two areas is due to the presence of footpaths, although this can not be directly attributed to trampling because varying intensity levels were not considered in this study.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1997	1997	Not Reported	Non-Vascular plants	Alnus spp.;Fagus spp.;Rubus fruticosus;Dryopteris dilatata;Rhamnus cathartica;Stellaria media;Viola riviniana;Urtica dioica;Juncus effusus;Ranunculus repens;Cirsium arvense;Mercurialis perennis;Circaea lutetiana;Tanacetum parthenium;Festuca gigantea;Plantago major;Glechoma hederacea;Viburnum opulus;Bromus ramosus;Viola hirta;Arum maculatum;Quercus petraea;Capsella bursa-pastoris;Rumex acetosa;Vulpia bromoides;Acer pseudoplatanus;Deschampsia cespitosa;Prunus avium;Rumex sanguineus;Carex sylvatica;Hordelymus europaeus;Bryophyta spp.	Other	No	No
Kirby_1997	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Kirby, A. (1997). The ecological effects of low intensity trampling on ancient woodland flora. Thesis, University of Lancaster, 101 pp.. 	1997	Kirby, A.	The ecological effects of low intensity trampling on ancient woodland flora		Lancaster	Lancaster	Undergraduate						101 pp.	Trampling is one of the many effects of recreational activities that can have a detrimental affect on the natural environment. This study aimed to identify early effects of trampling on vegetation in an ancient woodland Wytham wood was chosen as the site to study the effects of low intensity trampling levels on the woodland ground flora  Data on percentage cover of species, soil pH and light intensity readings were collected from twelve transects. Six of the transects were taken across footpaths and six in secluded areas for comparison  TWINSPAN analysis was used to classify samples in terms of the species they contained and Canonical Correspondence analysis was used to plot samples and species with the environmental variables to see if there was any correlation Simple linear regression and multiple regression were employed to look for a linear relationship between distance from footpaths (and therefore trampling) and species richness.  The results failed to find an increase in species richness with increasing distance from footpaths or a change in composition reflected along all the footpath transects. The TWINSPAN analysis did however, identify a different composition of species in secluded areas in contrast to areas near footpaths. The Canonical Correspondence analysis and the regression failed to find a strong relationship between composition and the environmental variables which leaves the pattern identified by TWINSPAN open to other influences.  The study concludes that although no evidence was found to show a change in vegetation at the impacted site, the overall contrast in species composition between the two areas is due to the presence of footpaths, although this can not be directly attributed to trampling because varying intensity levels were not considered in this study.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1997	1997	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Alnus spp.;Fagus spp.;Rubus fruticosus;Dryopteris dilatata;Rhamnus cathartica;Stellaria media;Viola riviniana;Urtica dioica;Juncus effusus;Ranunculus repens;Cirsium arvense;Mercurialis perennis;Circaea lutetiana;Tanacetum parthenium;Festuca gigantea;Plantago major;Glechoma hederacea;Viburnum opulus;Bromus ramosus;Viola hirta;Arum maculatum;Quercus petraea;Capsella bursa-pastoris;Rumex acetosa;Vulpia bromoides;Acer pseudoplatanus;Deschampsia cespitosa;Prunus avium;Rumex sanguineus;Carex sylvatica;Hordelymus europaeus;Bryophyta spp.	Other	No	No
Kitching_1969	Solo (Digital)	Thesis	Kitching, R.L. (1969). The fauna of tree-holes in relation to environmental factors. , 	1969	Kitching, R.L.	The fauna of tree-holes in relation to environmental factors			Thesis (D.Phil.)--University of Oxford, 1969.									Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Wetlands;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1968	1968	All Year	Annelids		Population Density	Yes	No
Kitching_1969	Solo (Digital)	Thesis	Kitching, R.L. (1969). The fauna of tree-holes in relation to environmental factors. , 	1969	Kitching, R.L.	The fauna of tree-holes in relation to environmental factors			Thesis (D.Phil.)--University of Oxford, 1969.									Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Wetlands;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1968	1968	All Year	Insects		Population Density	Yes	No
MacKinnon_1976	Solo (Print)	Thesis	MacKinnon, K.S. (1976). Home range, feeding ecology and social behaviour of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis Gmelin). Thesis, University of Oxford , 179 pp.. 	1976	MacKinnon, K.S.	Home range, feeding ecology and social behaviour of the grey squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis Gmelin)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						179 pp.	Relate home range of squirrels to available food and social behaviour with a view to methods of control	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood	Woodland	1	51.7582,-1.3300	1970	1972	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Population Density	No	No
Manzini_1983	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Manzini, H.T., Coe, M.J. (1983). Some factors influencing the ecology of food selection in the woodland rodents Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) and Clethrionomys glareolus (Schr.). Thesis, University of Oxford, 201 pp.. 	1983	Manzini, H.T., Coe, M.J.	Some factors influencing the ecology of food selection in the woodland rodents Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) and Clethrionomys glareolus (Schr.)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						201 pp.	overall ressearch aim was ecology of food for two rodents,and includes data on leaf litter dry mass	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1980	1982	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys glareolus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Fraxinus excelsior;Crataegus monogyna;Tilia spp.;Fagus sylvaticus;Castanea sativa;Quercus robur;Betula pendula;Rosa canina;Corylus avellana;Sambucus nigra;Rubus fruticosus;GuSambucus nigra rose;Euonymus europaeus;buckthorn;Prunus spinosa	Abundance	No	Yes
Manzini_1983	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Manzini, H.T., Coe, M.J. (1983). Some factors influencing the ecology of food selection in the woodland rodents Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) and Clethrionomys glareolus (Schr.). Thesis, University of Oxford, 201 pp.. 	1983	Manzini, H.T., Coe, M.J.	Some factors influencing the ecology of food selection in the woodland rodents Apodemus sylvaticus (L.) and Clethrionomys glareolus (Schr.)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						201 pp.	overall ressearch aim was ecology of food for two rodents,and includes data on leaf litter dry mass	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1980	1982	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys glareolus;Acer pseudoplatanus;Fraxinus excelsior;Crataegus monogyna;Tilia spp.;Fagus sylvaticus;Castanea sativa;Quercus robur;Betula pendula;Rosa canina;Corylus avellana;Sambucus nigra;Rubus fruticosus;GuSambucus nigra rose;Euonymus europaeus;buckthorn;Prunus spinosa	Abundance	No	Yes
Mason_1970	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Mason, C.F. (1970). Bio-energetic studies of populations of woodland molluscs. Thesis, University of Oxford, 122 pp.. 	1970	Mason, C.F.	Bio-energetic studies of populations of woodland molluscs		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						122 pp.	bioenergetic studies of molluscs	Wytham Estate	Beech Grove;Brogden's Belt;Singing Way	Grassland;Woodland	3	51.81169891,-1.61188796	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Molluscs	Carychium tridentatum,;Acanthinula aculeata,;Punctum pygmaeum;Vitrea contracta Hygromia scriolata;Oxychilus cellarius;Oxychilus alliarius;Retinella pura;Retinella nitidula;Marpessa liminata;Clausilia bidentata;discus rotundatus;Vitrina pellucida;Hygromia hispida;Cepaea nemoralis;Vallonia pulchella;Arianta arbustorum	Abundance	Yes	No
Mason_1970	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Mason, C.F. (1970). Bio-energetic studies of populations of woodland molluscs. Thesis, University of Oxford, 122 pp.. 	1970	Mason, C.F.	Bio-energetic studies of populations of woodland molluscs		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						122 pp.	bioenergetic studies of molluscs	Wytham Estate	Beech Grove;Brogden's Belt;Singing Way	Grassland;Woodland	3	51.76980382,-1.329488932	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Molluscs	Carychium tridentatum,;Acanthinula aculeata,;Punctum pygmaeum;Vitrea contracta Hygromia scriolata;Oxychilus cellarius;Oxychilus alliarius;Retinella pura;Retinella nitidula;Marpessa liminata;Clausilia bidentata;discus rotundatus;Vitrina pellucida;Hygromia hispida;Cepaea nemoralis;Vallonia pulchella;Arianta arbustorum	Abundance	Yes	No
Mason_1970	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Mason, C.F. (1970). Bio-energetic studies of populations of woodland molluscs. Thesis, University of Oxford, 122 pp.. 	1970	Mason, C.F.	Bio-energetic studies of populations of woodland molluscs		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						122 pp.	bioenergetic studies of molluscs	Wytham Estate	Beech Grove;Brogden's Belt;Singing Way	Grassland;Woodland	3	51.76667323,-1.33029779	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Molluscs	Carychium tridentatum,;Acanthinula aculeata,;Punctum pygmaeum;Vitrea contracta Hygromia scriolata;Oxychilus cellarius;Oxychilus alliarius;Retinella pura;Retinella nitidula;Marpessa liminata;Clausilia bidentata;discus rotundatus;Vitrina pellucida;Hygromia hispida;Cepaea nemoralis;Vallonia pulchella;Arianta arbustorum	Abundance	Yes	No
Medina Barcenas_2018	Solo (Digital)	Thesis	Medina-Barcenas, E.E. (2018). Tree Species Effects on Soil C Dynamics in Temperate Forests. Thesis, Open University 	2018	Medina Barcenas, E.E.	Tree Species Effects on Soil C Dynamics in Temperate Forests		Milton Keynes	Open University	Doctorate							Terrestrial ecosystems account for two-fifths of the total exchange of CO2 between the earth and the atmosphere, with forests contributing 80% of that exchange. Forest biomass and forest soils are particularly important carbon (C) sinks, however forest soil C stocks can vary widely, depending on the dominant tree species. Species specific differences in the quality and quantity of plant litter inputs can influence soil C dynamics and storage because they control decomposition processes, altering soil respiration and soil properties. However, our knowledge of how tree species identity influences the interactions between decomposition processes, soil C dynamics and soil C storage is still deficient. Resolving this knowledge gap is important to determine how tree species selection for afforestation might help us increase soil C sequestration and mitigate the effects of climate change. Using microcosm experiments and in situ mesocosms, I studied interactions between litter quality and soil properties for different temperate tree species in the UK. I measured key litter properties, and quantified the effect of litter quality and quantity on soil CO2 efflux and soil properties. My results show that litter quality, represented by nitrogen and lignin content, plays a major role in regulating soil C dynamics via litter decomposition. Litter quality also modified changes in soil CO2 efflux in response to altered litter inputs but the effect varied strongly by species. Using reciprocal transplant experiments in single species stands of alder, oak, and pine, I demonstrate variable influences of litter quality and the ‘home field advantage’ on decomposition and soil CO2 efflux. The present work provides an insight into the linkages between litter quality, decomposition and soil respiration in temperate forests. My results represent an important first step in identifying the future role of different tree species on soil C dynamics under climate change, which could inform forestry rotation and reforestation practices.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.7667,-1.3167	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported		Not Reported	No	Yes
Miller_1952	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Miller, R.S. (1952). Activity patterns in small mammals, with special reference to their use of natural resources. Thesis, University of Oxford, 158 pp.. 	1952	Miller, R.S.	Activity patterns in small mammals, with special reference to their use of natural resources		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						158 pp.	Population density	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Pasticks;Chalet area	Grassland;Woodland	3	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1950	1951	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys  glareolus	Population Density	Yes	No
Miller_1952	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Miller, R.S. (1952). Activity patterns in small mammals, with special reference to their use of natural resources. Thesis, University of Oxford, 158 pp.. 	1952	Miller, R.S.	Activity patterns in small mammals, with special reference to their use of natural resources		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						158 pp.	Population density	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Pasticks;Chalet area	Grassland;Woodland	3	51.76471606,-1.318396676	1950	1951	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys  glareolus	Population Density	Yes	No
Miller_1952	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Miller, R.S. (1952). Activity patterns in small mammals, with special reference to their use of natural resources. Thesis, University of Oxford, 158 pp.. 	1952	Miller, R.S.	Activity patterns in small mammals, with special reference to their use of natural resources		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						158 pp.	Population density	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Pasticks;Chalet area	Grassland;Woodland	3	51.77221462151121,-1.3376752396119147	1950	1951	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys  glareolus	Population Density	Yes	No
Murdoch_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Murdoch (1963). The population of ecology of certain carabid beetles living in marshes and near fresh water. Thesis, University of Oxford , 234 pp.. 	1963	Murdoch	The population of ecology of certain carabid beetles living in marshes and near fresh water		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						234 pp.	Over 100 species of Carabidae live wholly or mainly in various kinds of "wet" habitats in Britain. they occur in the litter or topaoil. Usually These habitats are easily recognisable and fairly well defined, and are mainly marshes, fans, boga, flushes and the wet adgen of fresh water bodies. This thesis is concerned mainly with the population dynamics of Agonum fuliginosum, a species found abundantly in many marches and fans, but also contains descriptions of the life histories and habitat distributions of some of the other "wet" species. The population dynamics of A. fuliginosum were studied at a march in Wytham Woods (Berkshire) and at two other marshes in the grounds of Blenheim Palace (Oxfordshire). Sampling methods included pitfall trapping, hand collecting and random sampling of the marsh litter and special hibernation sites (sallow logs). The habitat distributions of the species were studied at the above marshes and by sampling over 30 other "wet" habitats, sainly by pitfall trapping and hand collecting. Information on life histories came from beetles collected from most of these sources. The study aimed to describe the changes in numbers of Carabidae	Wytham Estate	Wytham Marsh	Wetlands	1	51.75808031033634,-1.32275726915247;51.76246908,-1.33831461751142	1961	1963	Not Reported	Insects	Agonum fulinginosum;Agonum obscurum;Agonum thoreyi;Pterostichus minor	Abundance	Yes	No
NewsonR_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, R. (1960). The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats. Thesis, University of Oxford, 140 pp.. 	1960	Newson, R.	The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						140 pp.	Ecology of two species of vole ad woodmouse in different habitats.	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Brogden's Belt;Wytham Hill;Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland;Woodland	4	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
NewsonR_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, R. (1960). The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats. Thesis, University of Oxford, 140 pp.. 	1960	Newson, R.	The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						140 pp.	Ecology of two species of vole ad woodmouse in different habitats.	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Brogden's Belt;Wytham Hill;Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland;Woodland	4	51.76980382,-1.329488932	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
NewsonR_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, R. (1960). The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats. Thesis, University of Oxford, 140 pp.. 	1960	Newson, R.	The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						140 pp.	Ecology of two species of vole ad woodmouse in different habitats.	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Brogden's Belt;Wytham Hill;Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland;Woodland	4	51.77104859,-1.336246161	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
NewsonR_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, R. (1960). The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats. Thesis, University of Oxford, 140 pp.. 	1960	Newson, R.	The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						140 pp.	Ecology of two species of vole ad woodmouse in different habitats.	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Brogden's Belt;Wytham Hill;Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland;Woodland	4	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
NewsonR_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, R. (1960). The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats. Thesis, University of Oxford, 140 pp.. 	1960	Newson, R.	The ecology of vole and mouse populations in different habitats		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						140 pp.	Ecology of two species of vole ad woodmouse in different habitats.	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Brogden's Belt;Wytham Hill;Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland;Woodland	4	51.77012495,-1.332787491	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Population Density	Yes	No
NewsonJ_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, J. (1960). The relationship between behaviour, population density and physiological condition in voles (Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus).Thesis, University of Oxford , 139 pp.. 	1960	Newson, J.	The relationship between behaviour, population density and physiological condition in voles (Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						139 pp.	relationship between physiology and population of voles	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Rough Common	Grassland;Woodland	2	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Clethrionomys glareolus	Population Density	Not Reported	Not Reported
NewsonJ_1960	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newson, J. (1960). The relationship between behaviour, population density and physiological condition in voles (Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus).Thesis, University of Oxford , 139 pp.. 	1960	Newson, J.	The relationship between behaviour, population density and physiological condition in voles (Microtus agrestis and Clethrionomys glareolus)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						139 pp.	relationship between physiology and population of voles	Wytham Estate	Great Wood;Rough Common	Grassland;Woodland	2	51.77016748,-1.336839512	1958	1960	Not Reported	Mammals	Clethrionomys glareolus	Population Density	Not Reported	Not Reported
Newton_1964	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Newton, I. (1964). The ecology and moult of the Bullfinch. Thesis, University of Oxford , 134 pp.. 	1964	Newton, I.	The ecology and moult of the Bullfinch		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						134 pp.	The population ecology of the Bullfinch was studied from October, 1961 to July 1964 on Wytham Estate, near Oxford, and in some nearby farmland. The bullfinches in Marley Wood were studied in relation to their winter food-supply	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation	Woodland	1	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1961	1964	Multiple seasons	Birds	Pyrrhula pyrrhula	Abundance	Yes	No
Paviour-Smith_1959	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Paviour-Smith, K. (1959). The ecology of the fauna associated with macrofungi growing on dead and decaying trees.Thesis, University of Oxford , 319 pp.. 	1959	Paviour-Smith, K.	The ecology of the fauna associated with macrofungi growing on dead and decaying trees		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						319 pp.	Assess fauna associated with macrofungi	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1955	1958	Not Reported	Fungi	Polyporus betulinus;Tetratoma fungorum;Cis bilamellatus	Other	No	No
Paviour-Smith_1959	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Paviour-Smith, K. (1959). The ecology of the fauna associated with macrofungi growing on dead and decaying trees.Thesis, University of Oxford , 319 pp.. 	1959	Paviour-Smith, K.	The ecology of the fauna associated with macrofungi growing on dead and decaying trees		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						319 pp.	Assess fauna associated with macrofungi	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1955	1958	Not Reported	Insects	Polyporus betulinus;Tetratoma fungorum;Cis bilamellatus	Other	No	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.76326403,-1.339992765	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.77758558,-1.32748523	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.7582,-1.3300	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.76950224,-1.322235926	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1963	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Perrins, C.M. (1963). Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits. Thesis, University of Oxford, 205 pp.. 	1963	Perrins, C.M.	Some factors influencing brood-size and populations in tits		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						205 pp.	This study forms part of a long term project on the investigation of the factors affecting populations of tits. The work has been done by members of the Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology under the direction of Dr. Lack. The study was initiated 16 years ago and has been carried out primarily on the Great Tit and, to a lesser extent, on the Blue Tit in Wytham Wood and also on these two species and the Coal Tit in other places. Ky om study was made primarily in Wytham but also to some extent in Oxford gardens as well.  Some basic data on the tits in Wytham and their movements are given. There is good evidence that the great majority of the birds do not leave the wood, so that the population can be treated as self- contained. Work was done on a much larger scale than before and a new trapping technique was employed which resulted in larger ambers of tits being caught. In addition, it was discovered that it was possible to distinguish by plumage between yearling and older Great Tits and hence to compare the nesting behaviour and survival of these two age groups.  Evidence is provided which suggests that the size of clutch a tit lays is, in part, influenced by the immediate surroundings of the nest: the birds lay larger clutches in areas where there are many large trees and smaller ones where there are few large trees. On the day of hatching some young were taken from one neat and put in another. This made it possible to collect many more data, than were previously available, on the fate of unusually large and small broods. It is shown that the weight of the young varies markedly with their brood-size, with the time of season at which the young hatch, and with habitat, young being heavier in all broods than in large ones, in early broods than in late ones and in woodland than in gardens. Etc.  	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood;Great Wood;Broad Oak;Common Piece;Bean Wood;Wytham Park;Wytham Estate	Woodland	7	51.767046,-1.328857	1957	1961	Winter	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus	Population Density	Yes	No
Richards_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Richards, C.G.J. (1981). Aspects of the popuation and feeding ecology of Microtus agrestis (L.), the field vole..Thesis, University of Oxford , 258 pp.. 	1981	Richards, C.G.J.	Aspects of the popuation and feeding ecology of Microtus agrestis (L.), the field vole.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						258 pp.	Analyse population dynamics to enable assessment of factors affecting numbers	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;The Dell;Broad Oak Ride	Grassland	3	SP45808,SP464079, SP45607351.77016748,-1.336839512	1975	1978	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis	Population Density	Yes	No
Richards_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Richards, C.G.J. (1981). Aspects of the popuation and feeding ecology of Microtus agrestis (L.), the field vole..Thesis, University of Oxford , 258 pp.. 	1981	Richards, C.G.J.	Aspects of the popuation and feeding ecology of Microtus agrestis (L.), the field vole.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						258 pp.	Analyse population dynamics to enable assessment of factors affecting numbers	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;The Dell;Broad Oak Ride	Grassland	3	51.76828124,-1.329592592	1975	1978	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis	Population Density	Yes	No
Richards_1981	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Richards, C.G.J. (1981). Aspects of the popuation and feeding ecology of Microtus agrestis (L.), the field vole..Thesis, University of Oxford , 258 pp.. 	1981	Richards, C.G.J.	Aspects of the popuation and feeding ecology of Microtus agrestis (L.), the field vole.		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						258 pp.	Analyse population dynamics to enable assessment of factors affecting numbers	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;The Dell;Broad Oak Ride	Grassland	3	51.76514178,-1.342643334	1975	1978	Not Reported	Mammals	Microtus agrestis	Population Density	Yes	No
Sorensen_1982	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Sorensen, A.E. (1982). Inter-relationships between fruits and fruit-eating birds.Thesis, University of Oxford , 135 pp.. 	1982	Sorensen, A.E.	Inter-relationships between fruits and fruit-eating birds		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						135 pp.	Assess inter-relations between fruit-eating birds and fruiting plants	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Woodland	unreported	51.767046,-1.328857	1979	1980	Not Reported	Birds	blackbird;Turdus pilaris;Turdus iliacus;song thrush;Poecile palustris;Poecile montanus;Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major;Aegithalos caudatus;Sitta europaea;blackcap;Erithacus rubecula;Columba palumbus;bullfinch;Fringilla coelebs;Sambucus nigra;bramble;Crataegus;Rosa canina;Prunus spinosa;Hedera;Euonymus europaeus;Lonicera;Bryonia dioica;black bryony	Abundance	Yes	No
Sorensen_1982	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Sorensen, A.E. (1982). Inter-relationships between fruits and fruit-eating birds.Thesis, University of Oxford , 135 pp.. 	1982	Sorensen, A.E.	Inter-relationships between fruits and fruit-eating birds		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						135 pp.	Assess inter-relations between fruit-eating birds and fruiting plants	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Woodland	unreported	51.767046,-1.328857	1979	1980	Not Reported	Vascular plants	blackbird;Turdus pilaris;Turdus iliacus;song thrush;Poecile palustris;Poecile montanus;Cyanistes caeruleus;Parus major;Aegithalos caudatus;Sitta europaea;blackcap;Erithacus rubecula;Columba palumbus;bullfinch;Fringilla coelebs;Sambucus nigra;bramble;Crataegus;Rosa canina;Prunus spinosa;Hedera;Euonymus europaeus;Lonicera;Bryonia dioica;black bryony	Abundance	Yes	No
Sutton_1966	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Sutton, S.L. (1966). The ecology of isopod populations in grassland. Thesis, University of Oxford, 349 pp.. 	1966	Sutton, S.L.	The ecology of isopod populations in grassland		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						349 pp.	Assess number of species present, their density and niomass; track changes in population structure of T. pusillus and P. muscorum, and establish miscro-distributioon of each species	Wytham Estate	Sunday's Hill	Grassland	1	51.76230215,-1.332130127	1964	1966	Not Reported	Crustaceans	Trichoniscus pygmaeus;Trichoniscus pusillus; Philoscia muscorum;Platyarthrus hoffmannseggi;Armadillidium vulgare;Glomeris marginata;	Abundance	Yes	No
Sutton_1966	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Sutton, S.L. (1966). The ecology of isopod populations in grassland. Thesis, University of Oxford, 349 pp.. 	1966	Sutton, S.L.	The ecology of isopod populations in grassland		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						349 pp.	Assess number of species present, their density and niomass; track changes in population structure of T. pusillus and P. muscorum, and establish miscro-distributioon of each species	Wytham Estate	Sunday's Hill	Grassland	1	51.76230215,-1.332130127	1964	1966	Not Reported	Myriapods	Trichoniscus pygmaeus;Trichoniscus pusillus; Philoscia muscorum;Platyarthrus hoffmannseggi;Armadillidium vulgare;Glomeris marginata;	Abundance	Yes	No
Watts_1966	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Watts, C.H.S. (1966). The ecology of woodland voles and mice with special reference to movement and population structure. Thesis, University of Oxford, 318 pp.. 	1966	Watts, C.H.S.	The ecology of woodland voles and mice with special reference to movement and population structure		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						318 pp.	Between November 1963 and March 1966 the changes in numbers and survival of bank voles (Clethrionoeye glareolus) and of wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) were studied, by live-trapping and marking the animals individually, on two 4.2 more (1.7 ha.) areas within a 65 acre (26 ha.) mixed deciduous wood at Wytham naar Oxford. Both areas sampled essentially the same populations. Bank voles were extremely abundant in late 1963 but declined in numbers rapidly during the winter of 1963-64 to reach a low density in the spring. Numbers remained low during the next eighteen months but rose again in the autumn of 1965. The role the food supply played in repressing a recovery in numbers during the first breeding season after the decline was investigated experimentally, by adding cats to a 3.6 nors (1.5 he.) area near one of the original trapping areas. There was no apparent difference between the survival of voles on the two areas, nor was the increase in numbers on the experimental area more marked than on the nearby area used as a control. It was therefore concluded that the continuing low numbers were not the result of a deficient food supply. The relative changes in numbers of wood mice recorded during this study were compared with those obtained in other studies at Wytham during the past eighteen years. This revealed the presence of three distinct types of yearly curve in the changes in numbers present, one of which occurred only once.	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Great Wood	Woodland	7	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1963	1966	All Year	Mammals	Clethrionoeye glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Watts_1966	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Watts, C.H.S. (1966). The ecology of woodland voles and mice with special reference to movement and population structure. Thesis, University of Oxford, 318 pp.. 	1966	Watts, C.H.S.	The ecology of woodland voles and mice with special reference to movement and population structure		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						318 pp.	Between November 1963 and March 1966 the changes in numbers and survival of bank voles (Clethrionoeye glareolus) and of wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) were studied, by live-trapping and marking the animals individually, on two 4.2 more (1.7 ha.) areas within a 65 acre (26 ha.) mixed deciduous wood at Wytham naar Oxford. Both areas sampled essentially the same populations. Bank voles were extremely abundant in late 1963 but declined in numbers rapidly during the winter of 1963-64 to reach a low density in the spring. Numbers remained low during the next eighteen months but rose again in the autumn of 1965. The role the food supply played in repressing a recovery in numbers during the first breeding season after the decline was investigated experimentally, by adding cats to a 3.6 nors (1.5 he.) area near one of the original trapping areas. There was no apparent difference between the survival of voles on the two areas, nor was the increase in numbers on the experimental area more marked than on the nearby area used as a control. It was therefore concluded that the continuing low numbers were not the result of a deficient food supply. The relative changes in numbers of wood mice recorded during this study were compared with those obtained in other studies at Wytham during the past eighteen years. This revealed the presence of three distinct types of yearly curve in the changes in numbers present, one of which occurred only once.	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Great Wood	Woodland	7	51.77581898,-1.33601966	1963	1966	All Year	Mammals	Clethrionoeye glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Webber_1975	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Webber, M.I. (1975). Some aspects of the non-breeding population dynamics of the Great tit (Parus major).Thesis, University of Oxford , 162 pp.. 	1975	Webber, M.I.	Some aspects of the non-breeding population dynamics of the Great tit (Parus major)		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						162 pp.	The aim of the present study is to answer the following questions: I: From field experiments, sampling and observation:  1) How do the chances of male and female first year Great Tits successfully establishing in an area change during the winter; and, in particular, how is recruitment influenced by spring territorial behaviour?  2) Are there Great Tits present in Wytham during the breeding season which do not breed?  3) In the immediate post-fledging period, how does the chance of subsequent survival alter; is there mortality dependent on the Juveniles' pre-fledging weights; how far do the young Great Tits disperse; and what changes are there in the juveniles' body weight?  II:  From analysis of accumulated data:  4) To what extent can the population changes outside the breeding season be broken down by age structure and into dynamic processes, such as immigration, emigration and mortality?  5) How are the distinguishable dynamic processes influenced by density and environmental processes such as the weather conditions and the Beech crop? 6) How does the population composition change during the year, outside the breeding season; what is the timing of mortality, immigration and dispersal? 7) By the construction of a model of Great Tit dynamics in Wytham, to test how Important the relations emerging from the analysis are in determining the observed population behaviour. 8) How do Great Tit dynamics compare with other species; how does the present research influence hypotheses concerning the regulation of Great Tit dynamics?	Wytham Estate	Bean Wood	Woodland	1	51.7582,-1.3300	1972	1975	Winter	Birds	Parus major	Other	Yes	No
Kirby_1988a	Solo (Print)	Book	Kirby, K.J., Wright, F.J.(Eds) (1988). Woodland conservation and research in the clay vale of Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire.. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987., 15 132-pp. 	1988	Kirby, K.J., Wright, F.J.(Eds)	Woodland conservation and research in the clay vale of Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire.	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		132-pp	Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987, including 9 papers and 6 abstracts of papers or posters presented at the meeting. Topics covered include timber exploitation, historical ecology, ancient woodland, botanical surveys, bird populations, invertebrates, coppicing, and their implications for woodland conservation. The 7 study sites in the area, 6 of which have some form of conservation designation, fall into a variety of ownerships - university and colleges, Forestry Commission, local authority, conservation organizations and private estates. [Papers by Gibson and Kirby are included separately in the systematic map]	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	2	51.767046,-1.328857	1974	1986	All Year;Not Reported;Spring	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.78087811,-1.332909931	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.76755832,-1.344520628	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.76072708,-1.33345268	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.7582,-1.3300	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.75950663,-1.327815413	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.757695,-1.315491827	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.7564606,-1.321750902	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.75347884,-1.31706989	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.76544424,-1.355924757	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.776921,-1.339585	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.76729001,-1.32831876	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.7666924,-1.336316989	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Gibson_1988	Solo (Print)	Book section	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Research and Survey in Nature Conservation. Proceedings of a symposium, sponsored by the UK Nature Conservancy Council, held at the Oxford Forestry Institute, 14 Mar. 1987. Kirby, K. J. and Wright, F. J. (Eds), 15. 32-40. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	The distribution of 'ancient woodland' plant species among areas of different history in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire	Research and Survey In Nature Conservation	Peterborough	Nature Conservancy Council			0 86139 478 X		15		32-40	In 1800, Wytham Woods contained 13-14 discrete patches of ancient semi woodland. Some of these areas have since been damaged or destroyed, but mosa intervening land has reverted to broadleaved woodland from arable land, old pasture, open common grazing and wood-pasture. In 1986, each area of ancient woodland and each other area of secondary woodland with a distinct history was searched from March to September for vascular plant species regarded by the Conservancy Council (NCC) South Region as 'ancient woodland indicators'. There were 72 such species in Wytham. Most individual species were 'indicators' only in the sense that they were commoner in ancient woodland than outside it. Three species had colonised a five-year old arable field and four others were commoner, or only found, outside ancient woodland. Two-hundred-year-old secondary woodland contained only slightly fewer species on the regional indicator list than ancient woodland, Thus, the list of relatively common species completely restricted to ancient woodland in Wytham was not the same as comparable list for NCC South region as a whole. A previously overlooked ancient woodland patch was identified by using the regional list. A high concentration of 'ancient woodland indicators' in a small area prompted a search of historical records which revealed references to a wood in the right area. The spread of many 'indicator species' into secondary woodland in Wytham suggests cautious optimism for their conservation and for the restoration of some features of ancient woods in other areas.	Wytham Estate	Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Ten Acre & Clay Hills;Woodcroft & Plumers;Dunches;Fosberts;Nealings;Bean Wood;Cowleaze;Marley Wood;Marley Plantation;Higgins Copse;Tubbs Copse;Stimpsons Copse;Stroud Copse;Wytham Great Wood;My Lady's Seat/My Lady's Common;Wytham Common;Radbrook Common;Woodbridges;Lord's Copse	Woodland	1	51.77140238,-1.343711931	1986	1986	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Acer campestre;Adoxa moschatellina;Agropyron caninum;Allium ursinum;Anemone nemorosa;Aquilegia vulgaris;Blechnum spicant;Calamagrostis epigejos;Campanula trachelium;Cardamine amara;Carex pallescens;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex strigosa;Carex sylvatica;Cephalanthera damasonium;Chrysosplenium oppositifolium;Colchicum autumnale;Conopodium majus;Crataegus oxyacanthoides;Daphne laureola;Dipsacus pilosus;Dryopteris borreri;Endymion non-scriptus;Epipactis helleborine;Epipactis purpurata;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Festuca gigantea;Gagea lutea;Galeobdolon luteum;Galium odoratum;Holcus mollis;Hypericum pulchrum;Ilex aquifolium;Iris foetidissima;Lathraea squamaria;Lathyrus sylvestris;Luzula pilosa;Lysimachia nemorum;Malus sylvestris;Melica uniflora;Milium effusum;Moehringia trinerva;Monotropa hypophegea;Monotropa hypopitys;Narcissus pseudo-narcissus;Neottia nidus-avis;Orchis mascula;Oxalis acetosella;Paris quadrifolia;Platanthera bifolia;Platanthera chlorantha;Poa nemoralis;Polystichum aculeatum;Populus tremula;Potentilla sterilis;Primula vulgaris;Prunus avium;Ranunculus auricomus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes sylvestre;Rosa arvensis;Sanicula europaea;Sedum telephium;Serratula tinctoria;Tamus communis;Ulmus glabra;Veronica montana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia sepium;Vicia sylvatica;Viola reichenbachiana;Zerna ramosa	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Committee_1966	Solo (Print)	Report	Committee for Wytham Woods (1966). Minutes of the Scientific Sub-Committee meeting, 16 December, 1966. 3 pp.. 	1966	Committee for Wytham Woods	Minutes of the Scientific Sub-Committee meeting, 16 December, 1966.		Unpublished	University of Oxford, Estates Department							3 pp.		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1966	1966	Not Reported	Mammals	Dama dama	Abundance	No	No
Anon_1955	Solo (Print)	Miscellaneous	Grayson, A.J., Jones, E.W. (1955). Wytham Woods and Field Station. 1955.  	1955	Grayson, A.J., Jones, E.W.	Wytham Woods and Field Station. 1955. Print		Oxford	Unpublished								A collection of maps, including soil maps and reports on soil types of Wytham	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Soil;Woodland	not reported	51.767046,-1.328857	1955	1987	Not Reported	Not Reported		Not Reported	No	Yes
Bloom_1993_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Bloom, G. (1993). The bryophytes of Wytham Wood. 	1993	Bloom, G.	The bryophytes of Wytham Wood			Unpublished								169 taxa, probably more than 80% of the mosses and liverworts in Wytham Wood have been recorded, mainly in 1990-1993. A list is also given of species previously recorded there and which have not been refound. On the basis of Dr. E. W. Jones’ Floras, some comments are made on changes in the bryophyte since these earlier records. The woods contain more species then most lowland words including several bryophytes uncommon in England. Its open [illegible] areas are refuges for species of a habitat which is decreasing nationally. It is therefore an important biological site so the conservation of its bryophtyes is discussed 	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1990	1993	Not Reported	Non-Vascular plants	Byophyta	Other	Yes	No
Don_1985_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Don, B.A.C. (1985). The use of drey counts to estimate grey squirrel populations. Journal of Zoology, 206(2) 282-286. 10.1111/j.1469-7998.1985.tb05656.x	1985	Don, B.A.C.	The use of drey counts to estimate grey squirrel populations	Journal of Zoology				10.1111/j.1469-7998.1985.tb05656.x			206	2	282-286		Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Woodland	3	51.767046,-1.328857	1979	1980	Not Reported	Mammals	Sciurus carolinensis	Abundance	Yes	No
Duffey_1953_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Duffey, E. (1953). XII.‚ÄîOn a lycosid spider new to Britain and two rare spiders taken near Oxford. Journal of Natural History, 6(62) 149-157. 10.1080/00222935308654405	1953	Duffey, E.	XII.‚ÄîOn a lycosid spider new to Britain and two rare spiders taken near Oxford	Journal of Natural History				10.1080/00222935308654405			6	62	149-157		Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Grassland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1951	1952	Autumn;Summer	Arachnids	Pirata uliginosus;Pirata hygrophilus;Pirata piccolo;Pirata latitans;Pirata piraticus;Pirata piscatorius	Abundance	Yes	No
Duffey_1962_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Duffey, E. (1962). A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. The Field-layer Fauna. Oikas, 13(1) 15-34. 10.2307/3565061	1962	Duffey, E.	A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. The Field-layer Fauna	Oikos				10.2307/3565061			13	1	15-34		Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Grassland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1951	1952	Autumn;Summer	Arachnids	Dictyna arundinacea; Meta segmentata; Araneus redii; Araneus  cornutus; Araneus gibbosus; Araneus  quadratus; Araneus marmoreus var. pyramidatus; Araneus diadematus; Theridion sisyphium; Theridion  impressum; Theridion  vittatum; Theridion ovatum; Cyclosa conica; Zygiella atrica; Tetragnatha extensa;; Pastinaca sativa; Hypericum hirsutum and perforatum;Inulda conyza; Conyglossum of ficinale	Abundance	Yes	No
Duffey_1962_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Duffey, E. (1962). A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. The Field-layer Fauna. Oikas, 13(1) 15-34. 10.2307/3565061	1962	Duffey, E.	A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. The Field-layer Fauna	Oikos				10.2307/3565061			13	1	15-34		Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Grassland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1951	1952	Autumn;Summer	Vascular plants	Dictyna arundinacea; Meta segmentata; Araneus redii; Araneus  cornutus; Araneus gibbosus; Araneus  quadratus; Araneus marmoreus var. pyramidatus; Araneus diadematus; Theridion sisyphium; Theridion  impressum; Theridion  vittatum; Theridion ovatum; Cyclosa conica; Zygiella atrica; Tetragnatha extensa;; Pastinaca sativa; Hypericum hirsutum and perforatum;Inulda conyza; Conyglossum of ficinale	Abundance	Yes	No
Duffey_1962_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Duffey, E. (1962). A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. Description of study area, sampling methods and population characteristics. Journal of Animal Ecology, 31(3) 571-599. 10.2307/2054	1962	Duffey, E.	A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. Description of study area, sampling methods and population characteristics	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2054			31	3	571-599	1. A description and vegetation analysis is given for a small area of limestone grassland by Wytham Wood, Berkshire. Three sampling areas are distinguished whose spider fauna was studied: (1) a Brachypodium pinnatum sward; (2) an area consisting mainly of Festuca rubra; and (3) a sparse and diverse vegetation on loose Coral Rag limestone. 2. Collecting and sampling methods are described including a platform temperature-gradient apparatus designed to extract the spider fauna from vegetation quadrat samples. 3. The dense Festuca turf supported more spiders (up to 841.9/m2) than Brachypodium, and both recorded higher population densities than the more varied vegetation on the Coral Rag limestone. The most uniform vegetation (Brachypodium) recorded the lowest mean number of species; the highest number was recorded on the Coral Rag where floristic diversity was greatest. 4. The proportion of adults in the spider population was never more than 48% during the year, being highest in the winter and lowest in late summer (<7% in July). the seasonal trends in population density and proportion of adults are similar in all three habitats. 5. A total of 141 species was recorded in the 2.8 acres (113.3 ares) of which 63% could be assigned to the ground zone. This total, which includes fifty-eight Linyphiidae, is nearly a quarter of the known British fauna. 6. Population interchange between the habitats appeared to take place easily, but within the same families the dominant species differed from habitat to habitat. 7. Examples are given of cryptic coloration in those spiders which hunt on the vegetation surface, mainly in the lower part of the field-layer. 8. The numbers of spiders taken in the traps in all three habitats showed a large peak in early summer (mainly Lycosidae) followed by a fall and subsidiary peak in the autumn (mainly Thomisidae), which is most pronounced in the Coral Rag vegetation and least in the Brachypodium. 9. Habitat preference in a number of common spiders is demonstrated both by trapping frequency and numbers recorded per unit area; both methods give the same picture of habitat selection. 10. Selective grazing and trampling by herbivores such as sheep are shown to influence population density and the micro-distribution of individual species.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Grassland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1951	1952	Spring	Arachnids	Ciniflo similis Bi.; Dictyna arundinacea (L.); Oonops pulcher Temp.; Dysdera erythrina (Walck.); Harpactea hombergi (Scop.); Drassodes lapidosus (Walck.); Drassus signifer; Zelotes latreillei (Sim.); Zelotes pusillus (C. L. Koch); Agroeca brunnea (Bi).; A. proxima (0. P.-C.); Cheiracanthium erraticum (Walck.); Clubiona corticalis (Walck.); Clubiona diversa (0. P.-C.); Clubiona terrestris Westr.; Phrurolithus festivus (C. L. Koch); Zora spinimana (Sund.); Oxyptila atormaria (Panzer); 0. sanctuaria (0. P.-C.); 0. simplex (0. P.-C.); 0. trux (B1.); Philodromus aureolus (Clerck); Tibellus oblongus (Walck.); Xysticus audax (Schrank); Xysticus bifasciatus; Xysticus cristatus (Clerck); Xysticus erraticus (Bi.); Xysticus luctuosus (Bl.); Xysticus ulmi (Hahn); Euophrys aequipes (0. P.-C.); E. frontalis (Walck.); Heliophanus flavipes C. L. Koch; Neon reticulatus (Bi.); Arctosa perita (Latr.); Lycosa amentata (Clerck); L. lugubris (Walck.); L. monticola (Clerck); L. nigriceps Thor.; L. pullata (Clerck); Lycosa prativaga; Lycosa tarsalis; Pirata uliginosus; Tarentula barbipes; Tarentula cuneata; Tarentula pulverulenta; Trochosa ruricola; Trochosa terricola; Pisaura mirabilis; Agelena labyrinthica; Amaurobius atropos; Cicurina cicur; Hahnia nava; Ero furcata; Asagena phalerata; Dipoena sp.; Enoplognatha thoracica; Episinus angulatus; Pholcomma gibbum; Robertus lividus (Bi.); Steatoda bipunctata (L.); Theridion bimaculatum (L.); Theridion blackwalli 0. P.-C.; Theridion (denticulatum) (Walck.); Theridion impressum L. Koch; Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Theridion pallens BL.; Theridion sisyphium (Clerck); Theridion vittatum C. L. Koch; Tetragnatha extensa (L.); Tinea nigra Lendl.; Araneus cornutus Clerck; A. cucurbitinus Clerck; A. diadematus Clerck; A. gibbosus (Walck).; A. marmoreus var. pyramidatus Clerck; A. quadratus Clerck; A. redii (Scop.); A. umbraticus Clerck; Cercidia prominens (Westr.); Cyclosa conica (Pallas); Meta segmentata (Clerck); Singa pygmaea (Sund.); Zygiella atrica (C. L. Koch); Anacotyle stativa; Araeoncus humilis; Bathyphantes approximatus; Bathyphantes gracilis; Bathyphantes nigrinus; Bathyphantes parvulus; Bathyphantes pullatus; Centromerita bicolor; Centromerita concinna; Centromerus dilutus; Centromerus sylvaticus; Ceratinella brevis; Cnephalocotes obscurus; Dicymbium nigrum; Dismodicus bifrons; Erigone atra; Erigone dentipalpis; Gonatium rubens; Lepthyphantes cristatus; Lepthyphantes ericaeus; Lepthyphantes flavipes; Lepthyphantes insignis; Lepthyphantes mengei; Lepthyphantes pallidus; Lepthyphantes tenuis; Lepthyphantes zimmermanni; Linyphia clathrata; Linyphia hortensis; Linyphia peltata; Linyphia triangularis; Lophocarenum parallelum; Meioneta mollis; Meioneta rurestris; Meioneta saxatilis; Micrargus herbigradus; Micrargus subaequalis; Monocephalus fuscipes; Oedothorax agrestis; Oedothorax apicatus; Oedothorax fuscus; Oedothorax gibbosus; Oedothorax (tuberosus); Oreonetides abnormis; Peponocranium ludicrum; Pocadicnemis pumila; Panamomops sulcifrons; Savignia frontata; Sintula cornigera; Stemonyphantes lineatus; Tapinocyba praecox; Tiso vagans; Trachynella obtusa; Typhocrestus digitatus; Walckenaera acuminata; Wideria antica; Wideria fugax; Wideria melanocephala;; Ranunculus parviflorus; Ranunculus  repens; Ranunculus  acris; Viola hirta; Hypericum perforatum; Hypericum  hirsutum; Linum catharticum; Medicago lupulina; Lotus corniculatus; Trifolium repens; Geum urbanum; Geranium molle; Geranium  robertianum; Geranium  dissectum; Rubus fruticosus agg.; Epilobium montanum; Potentilla anserina; Potentilla reptans; Agrimonia eupatoria; Rosa canina; Poterium sanguisorba; Fragaria vesca; Pastinaca sativa; Dipsacus fullonum sylvestris; Knautia arvensis; Galium verum; Galium cruciata; Galium mollugo; Inula conyza; Bellis perennis; Erigeron acris; Senecio jacobaea; Cirsium acaulon; Cirsium eriophorum; Cirsium lanceolatum; Cirsium arvense; Carlina vulgaris; Centaurium minus; Centaurea nigra; Hieracium pilosella; Crepis taraxacifolia; Crepis capillaris; Taraxacum laevigatum agg.; Leontodon hispidus; Campanula rotundifolia; Achillea millefolium; Anagallis arvensis; Ophrys apifera; Convolvulus arvensis; Cynoglossum officinale; Thymus drucei; Clinopodium vulgare; Glechoma hederacea L.; Euphrasia officinalis agg.; Ajuga reptans L.; Plantago lanceolata L.; Plantago media L.; Verbascum thapsus L.; Acer pseudoplatanus L.; Betula verrucosa Ehrh.; Quercus robur L.; Lychnis flos-cuculi L.; Myosotis hispida Schlecht.; Myosotis arvensis (L.); Sherardia arvensis L.; Cerastium vulgatum L.; Cerastium semidecandrum L.; Crataegus monogyna Jacq.; Helianthemum chamaecistus Mill.; Veronica officinalis L.; Veronica chamaedrys L.; Silene cucubalus Wibel; Prunella vulgaris L.; Alchemilla vulgaris agg.; Gentiana sp.; Sagina sp.; Urtica dioica L.; Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L.; Sonchus oleraceus L.; Carex caryophyllea Latour; Carex flacca Schreb.; Luzula campestris (L.); Phleum nodosum L.; Phleum pratense L.; Agrostis stolonifera L.; Agrostis tenuis Sibth.; Vulpia bromoides (L.); Arrhenatherum elatius (L.); Desmazeria rigida (L.); Brachypodium pinnatum (L.); Brachypodium sylvaticum (Huds.); Holcus lanatus L.; Festuca ovina L.; Festuca rubra L.; Dactylis glomerata L.; Cynosurus cristatus L.; Briza media L.; Trisetum flavescens (L.); Koeleria gracilis Pers.; Poa trivialis L.; Poa pratensis L.; Helictotrichon pratense (L.); Zerna erecta (Huds.) 	Abundance;Diversity	No	No
Duffey_1962_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Duffey, E. (1962). A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. Description of study area, sampling methods and population characteristics. Journal of Animal Ecology, 31(3) 571-599. 10.2307/2054	1962	Duffey, E.	A population study of spiders in limestone grassland. Description of study area, sampling methods and population characteristics	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2054			31	3	571-599	1. A description and vegetation analysis is given for a small area of limestone grassland by Wytham Wood, Berkshire. Three sampling areas are distinguished whose spider fauna was studied: (1) a Brachypodium pinnatum sward; (2) an area consisting mainly of Festuca rubra; and (3) a sparse and diverse vegetation on loose Coral Rag limestone. 2. Collecting and sampling methods are described including a platform temperature-gradient apparatus designed to extract the spider fauna from vegetation quadrat samples. 3. The dense Festuca turf supported more spiders (up to 841.9/m2) than Brachypodium, and both recorded higher population densities than the more varied vegetation on the Coral Rag limestone. The most uniform vegetation (Brachypodium) recorded the lowest mean number of species; the highest number was recorded on the Coral Rag where floristic diversity was greatest. 4. The proportion of adults in the spider population was never more than 48% during the year, being highest in the winter and lowest in late summer (<7% in July). the seasonal trends in population density and proportion of adults are similar in all three habitats. 5. A total of 141 species was recorded in the 2.8 acres (113.3 ares) of which 63% could be assigned to the ground zone. This total, which includes fifty-eight Linyphiidae, is nearly a quarter of the known British fauna. 6. Population interchange between the habitats appeared to take place easily, but within the same families the dominant species differed from habitat to habitat. 7. Examples are given of cryptic coloration in those spiders which hunt on the vegetation surface, mainly in the lower part of the field-layer. 8. The numbers of spiders taken in the traps in all three habitats showed a large peak in early summer (mainly Lycosidae) followed by a fall and subsidiary peak in the autumn (mainly Thomisidae), which is most pronounced in the Coral Rag vegetation and least in the Brachypodium. 9. Habitat preference in a number of common spiders is demonstrated both by trapping frequency and numbers recorded per unit area; both methods give the same picture of habitat selection. 10. Selective grazing and trampling by herbivores such as sheep are shown to influence population density and the micro-distribution of individual species.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate (unspecified)	Grassland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1951	1952	Spring	Vascular plants	Ciniflo similis Bi.; Dictyna arundinacea (L.); Oonops pulcher Temp.; Dysdera erythrina (Walck.); Harpactea hombergi (Scop.); Drassodes lapidosus (Walck.); Drassus signifer; Zelotes latreillei (Sim.); Zelotes pusillus (C. L. Koch); Agroeca brunnea (Bi).; A. proxima (0. P.-C.); Cheiracanthium erraticum (Walck.); Clubiona corticalis (Walck.); Clubiona diversa (0. P.-C.); Clubiona terrestris Westr.; Phrurolithus festivus (C. L. Koch); Zora spinimana (Sund.); Oxyptila atormaria (Panzer); 0. sanctuaria (0. P.-C.); 0. simplex (0. P.-C.); 0. trux (B1.); Philodromus aureolus (Clerck); Tibellus oblongus (Walck.); Xysticus audax (Schrank); Xysticus bifasciatus; Xysticus cristatus (Clerck); Xysticus erraticus (Bi.); Xysticus luctuosus (Bl.); Xysticus ulmi (Hahn); Euophrys aequipes (0. P.-C.); E. frontalis (Walck.); Heliophanus flavipes C. L. Koch; Neon reticulatus (Bi.); Arctosa perita (Latr.); Lycosa amentata (Clerck); L. lugubris (Walck.); L. monticola (Clerck); L. nigriceps Thor.; L. pullata (Clerck); Lycosa prativaga; Lycosa tarsalis; Pirata uliginosus; Tarentula barbipes; Tarentula cuneata; Tarentula pulverulenta; Trochosa ruricola; Trochosa terricola; Pisaura mirabilis; Agelena labyrinthica; Amaurobius atropos; Cicurina cicur; Hahnia nava; Ero furcata; Asagena phalerata; Dipoena sp.; Enoplognatha thoracica; Episinus angulatus; Pholcomma gibbum; Robertus lividus (Bi.); Steatoda bipunctata (L.); Theridion bimaculatum (L.); Theridion blackwalli 0. P.-C.; Theridion (denticulatum) (Walck.); Theridion impressum L. Koch; Theridion ovatum (Clerck); Theridion pallens BL.; Theridion sisyphium (Clerck); Theridion vittatum C. L. Koch; Tetragnatha extensa (L.); Tinea nigra Lendl.; Araneus cornutus Clerck; A. cucurbitinus Clerck; A. diadematus Clerck; A. gibbosus (Walck).; A. marmoreus var. pyramidatus Clerck; A. quadratus Clerck; A. redii (Scop.); A. umbraticus Clerck; Cercidia prominens (Westr.); Cyclosa conica (Pallas); Meta segmentata (Clerck); Singa pygmaea (Sund.); Zygiella atrica (C. L. Koch); Anacotyle stativa; Araeoncus humilis; Bathyphantes approximatus; Bathyphantes gracilis; Bathyphantes nigrinus; Bathyphantes parvulus; Bathyphantes pullatus; Centromerita bicolor; Centromerita concinna; Centromerus dilutus; Centromerus sylvaticus; Ceratinella brevis; Cnephalocotes obscurus; Dicymbium nigrum; Dismodicus bifrons; Erigone atra; Erigone dentipalpis; Gonatium rubens; Lepthyphantes cristatus; Lepthyphantes ericaeus; Lepthyphantes flavipes; Lepthyphantes insignis; Lepthyphantes mengei; Lepthyphantes pallidus; Lepthyphantes tenuis; Lepthyphantes zimmermanni; Linyphia clathrata; Linyphia hortensis; Linyphia peltata; Linyphia triangularis; Lophocarenum parallelum; Meioneta mollis; Meioneta rurestris; Meioneta saxatilis; Micrargus herbigradus; Micrargus subaequalis; Monocephalus fuscipes; Oedothorax agrestis; Oedothorax apicatus; Oedothorax fuscus; Oedothorax gibbosus; Oedothorax (tuberosus); Oreonetides abnormis; Peponocranium ludicrum; Pocadicnemis pumila; Panamomops sulcifrons; Savignia frontata; Sintula cornigera; Stemonyphantes lineatus; Tapinocyba praecox; Tiso vagans; Trachynella obtusa; Typhocrestus digitatus; Walckenaera acuminata; Wideria antica; Wideria fugax; Wideria melanocephala;; Ranunculus parviflorus; Ranunculus  repens; Ranunculus  acris; Viola hirta; Hypericum perforatum; Hypericum  hirsutum; Linum catharticum; Medicago lupulina; Lotus corniculatus; Trifolium repens; Geum urbanum; Geranium molle; Geranium  robertianum; Geranium  dissectum; Rubus fruticosus agg.; Epilobium montanum; Potentilla anserina; Potentilla reptans; Agrimonia eupatoria; Rosa canina; Poterium sanguisorba; Fragaria vesca; Pastinaca sativa; Dipsacus fullonum sylvestris; Knautia arvensis; Galium verum; Galium cruciata; Galium mollugo; Inula conyza; Bellis perennis; Erigeron acris; Senecio jacobaea; Cirsium acaulon; Cirsium eriophorum; Cirsium lanceolatum; Cirsium arvense; Carlina vulgaris; Centaurium minus; Centaurea nigra; Hieracium pilosella; Crepis taraxacifolia; Crepis capillaris; Taraxacum laevigatum agg.; Leontodon hispidus; Campanula rotundifolia; Achillea millefolium; Anagallis arvensis; Ophrys apifera; Convolvulus arvensis; Cynoglossum officinale; Thymus drucei; Clinopodium vulgare; Glechoma hederacea L.; Euphrasia officinalis agg.; Ajuga reptans L.; Plantago lanceolata L.; Plantago media L.; Verbascum thapsus L.; Acer pseudoplatanus L.; Betula verrucosa Ehrh.; Quercus robur L.; Lychnis flos-cuculi L.; Myosotis hispida Schlecht.; Myosotis arvensis (L.); Sherardia arvensis L.; Cerastium vulgatum L.; Cerastium semidecandrum L.; Crataegus monogyna Jacq.; Helianthemum chamaecistus Mill.; Veronica officinalis L.; Veronica chamaedrys L.; Silene cucubalus Wibel; Prunella vulgaris L.; Alchemilla vulgaris agg.; Gentiana sp.; Sagina sp.; Urtica dioica L.; Chrysanthemum leucanthemum L.; Sonchus oleraceus L.; Carex caryophyllea Latour; Carex flacca Schreb.; Luzula campestris (L.); Phleum nodosum L.; Phleum pratense L.; Agrostis stolonifera L.; Agrostis tenuis Sibth.; Vulpia bromoides (L.); Arrhenatherum elatius (L.); Desmazeria rigida (L.); Brachypodium pinnatum (L.); Brachypodium sylvaticum (Huds.); Holcus lanatus L.; Festuca ovina L.; Festuca rubra L.; Dactylis glomerata L.; Cynosurus cristatus L.; Briza media L.; Trisetum flavescens (L.); Koeleria gracilis Pers.; Poa trivialis L.; Poa pratensis L.; Helictotrichon pratense (L.); Zerna erecta (Huds.) 	Abundance;Diversity	No	No
East_2008_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	East, M.L., Perrins, C.M. (2008). The effect of nestboxes on breeding populations of birds in broadleaved temperate woodlands. Ibis, 130(4) 393-401. 10.1111/j.1474-919x.1988.tb00997.x	2008	East, M.L., Perrins, C.M.	The effect of nestboxes on breeding populations of birds in broadleaved temperate woodlands	Ibis				10.1111/j.1474-919x.1988.tb00997.x	0019-1019	http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919x.1988.tb00997.x	130	4	393-401	Removal of nestboxes from a semi‚Äêmature, broadleaved woodland caused a decrease in the number of breeding pairs of Great Tits, but did not significantly reduce breeding densities of Blue Tits. Breeding densities of warblers were unaffected by changes in the population of Great Tits. In the absence of nestboxes, intraspecific competition for natural nestholes was more intense amongst Great Tits than Blue Tits. Great Tits tended to occupy larger holes on or near the trunk, while Blue Tits used smaller holes on side branches. Nesting success for both species was lower in natural cavities than nestboxes, due to a higher percentage of total nest failures. The reintroduction of nestboxes did not produce an immediate rise in the breeding population of Great Tits; possible reasons for this are discussed.	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood	Woodland	2	51.76104055,-1.300415695	1981	1986	Autumn	Birds	Parus major; Cyanistes caeruleus; Phylloscopus trochilus; Phylloscopus collybita; Sylvia borin; Sylvia atricapilla; Sylvia communis	Abundance	Yes	No
East_2008_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	East, M.L., Perrins, C.M. (2008). The effect of nestboxes on breeding populations of birds in broadleaved temperate woodlands. Ibis, 130(4) 393-401. 10.1111/j.1474-919x.1988.tb00997.x	2008	East, M.L., Perrins, C.M.	The effect of nestboxes on breeding populations of birds in broadleaved temperate woodlands	Ibis				10.1111/j.1474-919x.1988.tb00997.x	0019-1019	http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1474-919x.1988.tb00997.x	130	4	393-401	Removal of nestboxes from a semi‚Äêmature, broadleaved woodland caused a decrease in the number of breeding pairs of Great Tits, but did not significantly reduce breeding densities of Blue Tits. Breeding densities of warblers were unaffected by changes in the population of Great Tits. In the absence of nestboxes, intraspecific competition for natural nestholes was more intense amongst Great Tits than Blue Tits. Great Tits tended to occupy larger holes on or near the trunk, while Blue Tits used smaller holes on side branches. Nesting success for both species was lower in natural cavities than nestboxes, due to a higher percentage of total nest failures. The reintroduction of nestboxes did not produce an immediate rise in the breeding population of Great Tits; possible reasons for this are discussed.	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation;Marley Wood	Woodland	2	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1981	1986	Autumn	Birds	Parus major; Cyanistes caeruleus; Phylloscopus trochilus; Phylloscopus collybita; Sylvia borin; Sylvia atricapilla; Sylvia communis	Abundance	Yes	No
Flowerdew_1974_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Flowerdew, J.R. (1974). Field and laboratory experiments on the social behaviour and population dynamics of the wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus). Journal of Animal Ecology, 499-511. 10.2307/3379	1974	Flowerdew, J.R.	Field and laboratory experiments on the social behaviour and population dynamics of the wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus)	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/3379					499-511	(1) The removal of adult male wood mice from a semi-isolated 1.2-ha area between late May and July in 1968 and until August in 1969 increased immigration/recruitment, improved juvenile and subadult survival and advanced the time of the expected autumn increase in numbers compared with a nearby 1.5-ha control area in continuous woodland. (2) Replicated field experiments showed that established residents hinder the settlement of immigrating adults. (3) Laboratory experiments showed that established adults may reduce the growth and survival of juveniles. (4) It is concluded that adult males hinder the recruitment of juveniles as well as immigration and so prevent numbers from increasing during most of the summer. (5) The role of females and the significance of variations in aggressive behaviour in population regulation have still to be elucidated.	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland	2	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1967	1969	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Fox_1999_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Fox, L.R., Ribeiro, S.P., Brown, V.K., Masters, G.J., Clarke, I.P. (1999). Direct and indirect effects of climate change on St John's wort, Hypericum perforatum L.(Hypericaceae). Oecologia, 120(1) 113-122. 10.1007/s004420050839	1999	Fox, L.R., Ribeiro, S.P., Brown, V.K., Masters, G.J., Clarke, I.P.	Direct and indirect effects of climate change on St John's wort, Hypericum perforatum L.(Hypericaceae)	Oecologia				10.1007/s004420050839			120	1	113-122	We report results from a continuing, long-term field experiment addressing biotic responses to climatic change in grasslands. We focus on effects of summer precipitation (enhanced rainfall, drought, control) and winter ground temperatures (warming, control) on growth, reproduction and herbivory in St John's wort, Hypericum perforatum L. Both winter warming and summer rainfall regimes modified performance and interactions of H. perforatum, particularly those with herbivorous insects. Winter warming had positive effects, with earlier initiation of plant growth and reduced damage by gall-forming and sucking insects in spring, but also had strong negative effects on plant height, flowering, and reproduction. Summer drought reduced reproductive success, but even severe drought did not affect plant growth or flowering success directly. Rather, summer drought acted indirectly by modifying interactions with herbivorous insects via increased vulnerability of the plants to herbivory on flowers and capsules. Overall, the effects of summer precipitation were expressed mainly through interactions that altered the responses to increased winter temperatures, particularly as summer drought increased. The field site, in Oxfordshire, UK, is near the northern limit of distribution of the species, and the experiment tested probable responses of H. perforatum as climates shift towards those more typical of the current center of the distribution of the species. However, if climates do change according to the projected scenarios, then H. perforatum is unlikely to fare well near its northern boundary. Increased winter temperatures, particularly if accompanied by increased summer drought, will probably render this species even less abundant in England than at present.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland		51.768935,-1.329199	1995	1995	Summer	Vascular plants	hypericum perforatum	Abundance	No	No
Gibson_1992_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K., Losito, L., McGavin, G.C. (1992). The response of invertebrate assemblies to grazing. Ecography, 15(2) 166-176. 10.1111/j.1600-0587.1992.tb00020.x	1992	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K., Losito, L., McGavin, G.C.	The response of invertebrate assemblies to grazing	Ecography				10.1111/j.1600-0587.1992.tb00020.x			15	2	166-176	Invertebrate communities were monitored in a controlled sheep grazing experiment on ex‚Äêarable land on limestone and in nearby older calcicolous grasslands Results for vacuum sampling of Heteroptera and herbivorous Coleoptera are presented and compared with the responses of spiders, leafhoppers and leaf‚Äêminers Invertebrate groups differed in their responses to grazing and grassland age in terms of species diversity, abundance, variability over time and the development of a specific fauna on short turf Leaf‚Äêminer assemblies were most strongly determined by the effects of grazing on plant species composition, while spiders' responses could largely be explained by the effects of grazing on plant architecture Spider species simply accumulated over time, whilst leaf‚Äêminers were the most labile group Spiders, leaf‚Äêminers and leafhoppers all contained some common species restricted to old grasslands, whilst herbivorous Coleoptera and Heteroptera did not No single group demonstrated the full range of invertebrate responses Spiders, leafhoppers and leaf‚Äêminers each showed useful features as ‚Äúindicator groups‚Ä¥, but more than one group should be chosen for study in the context of particular research projects	Wytham Estate	Upper Seeds	Farmland;Grassland		51.77012495,-1.332787491	1985	1989	All Year	Arachnids	Nabis flavomarginatus;Dolichonabis limbatus;Stalia major;Stygnocoris pedestris;Plagiognathus chrysanthemi;Notostira elongata;Amblytylus nasutus;Leptopterna dolabrata;Phytocoris varipes;Drymus sylvaticus;Capsus ater;Orthops campestris;Peritrechus geniculatus;Lopus decolor;Dictyonota tricornis;Podops ununcta;Berytinus montivagus;Stenodema calcaratum;Pithanus maerkeli;Trigonotylus ruficornis;Plagiognathus arbustorum;Anthocoris nemorum;Megaloceraea recticornis;Lygus rugulipennis;Salduda saltatoria;Calocoris norvegicus;Tingis cardui;Orius laevigatus;Ceutorhynchus punctiger;Apion onopordi;Chaetocnema confusa;Sitona puncticollis;Rhinoncus pericarpius;Ceutorhynchus trimaculatus;Sitona lineatus;Longitarsus spp;Meligethes aeneus;Longitarsus jacobaeae;Meligethes spp;Apion dichroum;Apion loti;Apion seniculus;Apion trifolu;Oedomera lurida;Rhagonycha femoralis;Rhagonycha fulva;Trachys scrobiculatus;Miccotrogus picirostris;Sitona humeralis;Apion filirostre;Anthonomus rubi;Hypera postica;Apion virens;Sitona hispidulus;Orthochaetes setiger;Apion miniatum;Apion pisi;Sitona sulcifrons;Sphaeroderma rubidum;Sitona lepidus;Phaedon tumidulus;Apion vorax;Apion carduorum;Apion onopordi;Apion rufirostre	Abundance	No	No
Gibson_1992_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K., Losito, L., McGavin, G.C. (1992). The response of invertebrate assemblies to grazing. Ecography, 15(2) 166-176. 10.1111/j.1600-0587.1992.tb00020.x	1992	Gibson, C.W.D., Brown, V.K., Losito, L., McGavin, G.C.	The response of invertebrate assemblies to grazing	Ecography				10.1111/j.1600-0587.1992.tb00020.x			15	2	166-176	Invertebrate communities were monitored in a controlled sheep grazing experiment on ex‚Äêarable land on limestone and in nearby older calcicolous grasslands Results for vacuum sampling of Heteroptera and herbivorous Coleoptera are presented and compared with the responses of spiders, leafhoppers and leaf‚Äêminers Invertebrate groups differed in their responses to grazing and grassland age in terms of species diversity, abundance, variability over time and the development of a specific fauna on short turf Leaf‚Äêminer assemblies were most strongly determined by the effects of grazing on plant species composition, while spiders' responses could largely be explained by the effects of grazing on plant architecture Spider species simply accumulated over time, whilst leaf‚Äêminers were the most labile group Spiders, leaf‚Äêminers and leafhoppers all contained some common species restricted to old grasslands, whilst herbivorous Coleoptera and Heteroptera did not No single group demonstrated the full range of invertebrate responses Spiders, leafhoppers and leaf‚Äêminers each showed useful features as ‚Äúindicator groups‚Ä¥, but more than one group should be chosen for study in the context of particular research projects	Wytham Estate	Upper Seeds	Farmland;Grassland		51.77012495,-1.332787491	1985	1989	All Year	Insects	Nabis flavomarginatus;Dolichonabis limbatus;Stalia major;Stygnocoris pedestris;Plagiognathus chrysanthemi;Notostira elongata;Amblytylus nasutus;Leptopterna dolabrata;Phytocoris varipes;Drymus sylvaticus;Capsus ater;Orthops campestris;Peritrechus geniculatus;Lopus decolor;Dictyonota tricornis;Podops ununcta;Berytinus montivagus;Stenodema calcaratum;Pithanus maerkeli;Trigonotylus ruficornis;Plagiognathus arbustorum;Anthocoris nemorum;Megaloceraea recticornis;Lygus rugulipennis;Salduda saltatoria;Calocoris norvegicus;Tingis cardui;Orius laevigatus;Ceutorhynchus punctiger;Apion onopordi;Chaetocnema confusa;Sitona puncticollis;Rhinoncus pericarpius;Ceutorhynchus trimaculatus;Sitona lineatus;Longitarsus spp;Meligethes aeneus;Longitarsus jacobaeae;Meligethes spp;Apion dichroum;Apion loti;Apion seniculus;Apion trifolu;Oedomera lurida;Rhagonycha femoralis;Rhagonycha fulva;Trachys scrobiculatus;Miccotrogus picirostris;Sitona humeralis;Apion filirostre;Anthonomus rubi;Hypera postica;Apion virens;Sitona hispidulus;Orthochaetes setiger;Apion miniatum;Apion pisi;Sitona sulcifrons;Sphaeroderma rubidum;Sitona lepidus;Phaedon tumidulus;Apion vorax;Apion carduorum;Apion onopordi;Apion rufirostre	Abundance	No	No
Godfrey_1955_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Godfrey, G.K. (1955). Observations on the nature of the decline in numbers of two Microtus populations. Journal of Mammalogy, 36(2) 209-214. 10.2307/1375878	1955	Godfrey, G.K.	Observations on the nature of the decline in numbers of two Microtus populations	Journal of Mammalogy				10.2307/1375878			36	2	209-214	Microtus populations are known to be subject to marked fluctuations in numbers, with periods of peak abundance alternating with periods of scarcity, and recurring at approximately four-year intervals. In 1952 Chitty advanced an hypoThesis to account for the `crash' of the voles at the end of each period of abundance, explaining the severe mortality at this stage of the cycle as resulting from conditions to which the parents had been exposed during the previous (i.e. peak) breeding season, and not from abnormal environmental conditions affecting the progeny at that time or during the decrease. This view is developed more fully by Chitty (1954). The hypoThesis is based on evidence obtained during a study of vole populations in Wales where severe mortality occurred among the first-born young during the peak breeding season. Young born later in the season had a higher survival rate at first,...	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland		51.77016748,-1.336839512	1950	1952	Spring;Summer	Mammals	Microtus agrestis	Abundance	Yes	No
Godfrey_1955_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Godfrey, G.K. (1955). Observations on the nature of the decline in numbers of two Microtus populations. Journal of Mammalogy, 36(2) 209-214. 10.2307/1375878	1955	Godfrey, G.K.	Observations on the nature of the decline in numbers of two Microtus populations	Journal of Mammalogy				10.2307/1375878			36	2	209-214	Microtus populations are known to be subject to marked fluctuations in numbers, with periods of peak abundance alternating with periods of scarcity, and recurring at approximately four-year intervals. In 1952 Chitty advanced an hypoThesis to account for the `crash' of the voles at the end of each period of abundance, explaining the severe mortality at this stage of the cycle as resulting from conditions to which the parents had been exposed during the previous (i.e. peak) breeding season, and not from abnormal environmental conditions affecting the progeny at that time or during the decrease. This view is developed more fully by Chitty (1954). The hypoThesis is based on evidence obtained during a study of vole populations in Wales where severe mortality occurred among the first-born young during the peak breeding season. Young born later in the season had a higher survival rate at first,...	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;The Dell	Grassland		51.76828124,-1.329592592	1950	1952	Spring;Summer	Mammals	Microtus agrestis	Abundance	Yes	No
King_1971_WDA	Solo (Print)	Thesis	King, C.M. (1971). Studies on the ecology of the weasel (Mustela nivalis L.). , 334 pp.. 	1971	King, C.M.	Studies on the ecology of the weasel (Mustela nivalis L.)			University of Oxford				https://ethos.bl.uk/OrderDetails.do?uin=uk.bl.ethos.670638			334 pp.	An attempt has been made to outline the ecology of the weasel (Mustela nivalis L.) in Wytham Woods, near Oxford, with particular reference to its relationships with its principal prey (the two small rodents Clethrionomys glareolus Schreber and Apodemus sylvaticus L. and (at certain times of the year) birds of the family Paridae). Comparison was also made between the weasel and the tawny owl (Strix aluco L.); these two species together are the most Important predators in the wood. (Data on species other than the weasel were from the work of other members of this Department working in the same study area.) Field studies were carried out from March 1968 to June 1970, and were supported by laboratory analysis of the food of weasels in Wytham and elsewhere: background information on age structure and population dynamics was obtained by analysis of carcasses of weasels killed by gamekeepers. In Wytham during the study period (a time of "normal" small rodent numbers) the mean territory size of male weasels was 28 acres, and of females, 5-10 acres. A total of 25 weasels were marked on a study area of 67 acres, of which 10 were classified as residents. In all, 347 captures were recorded. The evidence suggested that even with these large territories, the weasels were short of food. An average of 6.9 hours were required for all the traps to be set at night before one caught a weasel, 8.9 hours by day. The food relationships of the Wytham weasels were analysed from 34 faecal samples: the main prey at all seasons was Clethrionomys, with a very marked increase in the numbers of birds and eggs taken in spring. Individual variations in diet could be explained in terms of the patterns of habitat types contained in each territory. The estimated rate of removal of Apodemus and Clethrionomys averaged 10% per month of each species. Weasels selected for Clethrionomys at high predation pressure (in winter) and it was only then that they were accounting for most of the observed mortality of the voles; they were responsible for a smaller proportion of the total mortality of Apodemus. There was no evidence that predation by weasels had any regulating effect on the small rodent populations, and this is probably correlated with the great complexity and stability of the habitat. The weasels and the tawny owls in Wytham appear to be ecologically separated by their activity patterns and food habits.	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1968	1970	All Year	Mammals	Mustela nivalis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus 	Other	No	No
King_1980_WDA	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	King, C.M. (1980). Population biology of the weasel Mustela nivalis on British game estates. Ecography, 3(3) 160-168. 10.1111/j.1600-0587.1980.tb00722.x	1980	King, C.M.	Population biology of the weasel Mustela nivalis on British game estates	Ecography				10.1111/j.1600-0587.1980.tb00722.x			3	3	160-168	The mean year-class ratio in 6 samples of weasels (total n = 477) ranged from 59% to 84% young, and mean age from 0.79 to 1.16 yr. There was no difference in age structure between samples from 5 game estates and 1 reserve. Mean annual mortality of weasels of both sexes and all ages was 75-90%. In 12 pregnant weasels the mean number of embryos, observed from April to June, was 5.6. There was a definite anoestrous season in winter. Records of the number of weasels killed on game estates show that weasels and stoats reacted differently to the first outbreak of myxomatosis in England in 1954; and that weasel populations are capable of enormous sudden increases (usually associated with “mouse years”). These increases are probably due largely to summer litters produced by precocious juveniles, and also to some adults breeding a second time (both possibilities confirmed from ovarian histology on this material). Traditional gamekeeping practice may influence the seasonal pattern of mortality of weasels (highest in spring) but its effects are probably short-lived.	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland		51.76602865,-1.309908861	1968	1970	All Year	Mammals	Mustela nivalis	Population Density	No	No
King_1985_WDA	Solo (Print)	Conference Paper	King, C.M. (1985). Interactions between woodland rodents and their predators. In: The ecology of woodland rodents : bank voles and wood mice : the proceedings of a symposium held at the Zoological Society of London on 23rd and 24th of November 1984, Edited by J.R. Flowerdew, J. Gurnell, and J.H.W. Gipps., 55. 219-247. 	1985	King, C.M.	Interactions between woodland rodents and their predators	In: The Ecology of Woodland Rodents : Bank Voles and Wood Mice : The Proceedings of A Symposium Held At The Zoological Society of London On 23Rd and 24Th of November 1984, Edited By J.R. Flowerdew, J. Gurnell, and J.H.W. Gipps.		Zoological Society of London					55		219-247	The interactions between woodland rodents (mainly wood mice, Apodemus sylvaticus, and bank voles, Clethrionomys glareolus, but also including ecologically equivalent species of Peromyscus and Mus) and their predators are discussed at both the individual and the population level. The hunting techniques of predators, and the anti-predator defences of the rodents, determine which and how many rodents are killed. The effects of fluctuations in numbers of rodents on the biology of predators depend largely on the predator's hunting technique and life-history strategy. The effect of the combined force of predators on the population fluctuations of the rodents depends on whether their collective functional and numerical response is sufficiently extensive and rapid; this is greatly influenced by the supply of alternative prey and the heterogeneity of the habitat. In four case studies discussed, the impact of predation was considered to be substantial in all, but the apparent effects were opposite: in two it amplified and in the other two it minimised the population fluctuations of the rodents. [Contains data from Southern (various years) and King 1975 from Wytham]	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1954	1970	Not Reported	Mammals	Mustela nivalis;Clethrionomys glareolus;Apodemus sylvaticus;Strix aluco	Other	No	No
Kirby_1995_WDA	Solo (Print)	Report	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C., Dawkins, H.C. (1995). Changes in the composition and structure of the tree and shrub layers in Wytham Wood (Oxfordshire). 1974-1991. English Nature Research Reports, 143(33 pp.. 	1995	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C., Dawkins, H.C.	Changes in the composition and structure of the tree and shrub layers in Wytham Wood (Oxfordshire). 1974-1991	English Nature Report	Peterborough	English Nature					143		33 pp.	1. In 1974-76 164 permanent 10x10m plots were recorded at alternate intersections of a 100x100m grid in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire. Tree and shrub data were collected from all the plots in 1974-76, from 27 in 1984-85 and from all but one in 1991-92.  2. Changes in the structure and composition of the wood are assessed in terms of canopy cover, mean tree diameter, basal area and species occurrence.  3. The wood has become more open (reduced canopy cover) partly through management, partly natural processes such as windthrow and disease. The shrub cover has also declined greatly, probably because of increased deer browsing.  4. Most stands are predominantly young growth and for the wood as a whole mean tree  diameter, basal area and tree height have increased.  5. The overall composition of the wood has changed little, but there has been a significant decline in mean woody species number per plot from 5.8 to 4.1, mainly through declines in understorey species and young oak. Elm cover has been reduced by disease and birch also suffered preferentially from windthrow.  6. Variation in the composition of the plots was grouped into six broad classes using TWINSPAN analysis. These groupings in part reflect the differences in history and management of the woods which are a mixture of ancient and recent, semi-natural and planted stands.  7. The results are used to indicate gains and losses in nature conservation terms for the wood as a whole. The strengths and weaknesses of this system may hold lessons for future woodland monitoring exercises.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1992	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Kruuk_1982_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Kruuk, H., Parish, T. (1982). Factors affecting population density, group size and territory size of the European badger, Meles meles. Journal of Zoology, 196(1) 31-39. 10.1111/j.1469-7998.1982.tb03492.x	1982	Kruuk, H., Parish, T.	Factors affecting population density, group size and territory size of the European badger, Meles meles	Journal of Zoology				10.1111/j.1469-7998.1982.tb03492.x			196	1	31-39	This paper discusses the relationship between the distribution and biomass of the main prey of European badgers, Meles meles and the badgers group size, territory size and population density. The distribution of areas rich in earthworms, Lumbricus spp., is correlated with badger range size, whilst badger group size increases with the biomass of worms per badger territory and badger density increases with overall worm biomass. Regulation of badger density in an area is likely to take place through regulation of group size, in the absence of other factors such as persecution and lack of suitable sett‚Äêsites.	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland	1	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1972	1975	Not Reported	Mammals	Meles meles	Abundance	No	No
Lack_1964_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Lack, D. (1964). A long-term study of the great tit (Parus major). Journal of Animal Ecology, 159-173. 10.2307/2437	1964	Lack, D.	A long-term study of the great tit (Parus major)	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2437					159-173	1. The breeding population of the great tit in Marley Wood between 1947 and 1962 fluctuated between seven and eighty-six pairs. The fluctuations were mainly synchronous with those of the blue tit, and also with those of the great tit in other woods in England and Holland. 2. The commonest clutch was nine, and in most years the brood-size which on average resulted in most surviving juveniles was 9-10, though it varied in different years between five and fourteen. 3. Clutch-size and the production-rate of nestlings were slightly lower at higher breeding densities. They had no apparent influence on the fluctuations in the breeding population. 4. The critical factor determining the population fluctuations was the mortality of the juveniles between leaving the nest and the beginning of winter, probably mainly in June. This mortality was correlated with the ensuing beechmast crop, presumably because both were affected by certain conditions in summer. 5. Predation and disease seem to have been unimportant, and the evidence suggests that the breeding density was not limited by territorial behaviour. Hence the chief density-dependent factor was probably food shortage, but this could not be studied in the great tit in Marley; the coal tit was probably limited by its winter food in conifer plantations.	Wytham Estate	Marley Wood	Woodland	1	51.76602865,-1.309908861	1947	1962	Not Reported	Birds	Parus major	Abundance	Yes	No
Mallorie_1994_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Mallorie, H.C., Flowerdew, J.R. (1994). Woodland small mammal population ecology in Britain: a preliminary review of the Mammal Society survey of wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus, 1982-87. Mammal Review, 24(1) 1-15. 10.1111/j.1365-2907.1994.tb00131.x	1994	Mallorie, H.C., Flowerdew, J.R.	Woodland small mammal population ecology in Britain: a preliminary review of the Mammal Society survey of wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus and bank voles Clethrionomys glareolus, 1982-87	Mammal Review				10.1111/j.1365-2907.1994.tb00131.x			24	1	1-15	The Mammal Society has co‚Äêordinated a population survey of Wood Mice Apodemus sylvaticus and Bank Voles Clethrionomys glareolus in 13 0.81 ‚Äêhectare sites in Britain. Numbers of mice and voles live‚Äêtrapped using standard methods were collated every May/June and November/December from 1982 to 1987. The data were analysed with results from four independent studies in England and the corresponding assessments of tree seed crop size. Wood Mouse numbers are usually higher in winter than in summer but Bank Vole fluctuations are less regular. In deciduous woodland, Wood Mouse mean relative densities are significantly greater in the winter and the following summer after a good seed crop than after a poor one; rates of population change from summer to winter are significantly higher when a good seed crop falls. Bank Vole relative densities are significantly greater in the summer following a good seed crop than after a poor one, and rates of change from winter to summer are significantly higher. In Wood Mouse populations, tests for density dependence suggest that it is strong from summer to winter but absent from winter to summer; in Bank Voles weaker density dependence is present in both halves of the year. Thus, Wood Mouse numbers are regulated in autumn but are also influenced by seed crop size in winter and the following summer; Bank Vole numbers are less strongly regulated during both autumn and spring and are influenced by seed crop size in the following summer. Evidence is presented suggesting that populations of each species in deciduous woodlands are synchronized over the country in summer and that Wood Mice are also synchronized in winter; highs and lows tend to coincide between different sites. The yield of tree seed is shown to vary significantly from year to year and may be the cause of the synchrony, but weather effects may also be involved.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	1982	1987	Not Reported	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Myodes glareolus	Abundance	Yes	No
Moragues-Saitua_2018_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Moragues-Saitua, L., Merino-Martín, L., Stokes, A., Staunton, S. (2018). Towards meaningful quantification of glomalin-related soil protein (GRSP), taking account of interference with the Coomassie Blue (Bradford) assay. European Journal of Soil Science, 70(4) 727-735. 10.1111/ejss.12698	2018	Moragues-Saitua, L., Merino-Martín, L., Stokes, A., Staunton, S.	Towards meaningful quantification of glomalin-related soil protein (GRSP), taking account of interference with the Coomassie Blue (Bradford) assay	European Journal of Soil Science				10.1111/ejss.12698			70	4	727-735	Glomalin-related soil protein (GRSP), an operationally defined fraction of soil organic matter containing protein and various other components, is usually quantified using the colorimetric non-specific Bradford method. This method is limited by a short working range, a non-linear response and interference from co-extracted compounds. These limitations hinder the exact quantification of the protein component. The aim of this study was to investigate the source of interference in the Bradford quantification of GRSP and propose several methodological improvements based on identified interferences. The easily extractable and total GRSP in five topsoils with contrasting texture, organic carbon content and land use were compared. Results showed that: (i) the extent of interference varied between different soils, (ii) the standard addition method overestimated the extent of inhibition, (iii) absorbance should be corrected for colour, (iv) use of the ratio of absorbances at 595 and 465 nm, A595/A465, is not recommended because it is sensitive to pH and dilution-dependent absorbance at 465 nm, (v) although a quadratic fit to the protein calibration curve was better than the linear fit, it was not possible for the dilution method and (vi) estimation of protein content from the dilution curve of the soil extract appeared to be suitable as it integrates the often observed, and hitherto unexplained, effect of dilution on the calculated protein content of soil extracts and avoids artefacts because of the choice of protein spike and dilution.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland	1	51.768935,-1.329199	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported		Not Reported	No	Yes
Murdoch_1966_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Murdoch, W.W. (1966). Aspects of the population dynamics of some marsh Carabidae. Journal of Animal Ecology,  . 10.2307/2694	1966	Murdoch, W.W.	Aspects of the population dynamics of some marsh Carabidae	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2694					 	1. Two populations of Agonum fuliginosum living in well-defined marsh habitats were studied from spring 1961 to spring 1963. Estimates of changes in relative or absolute abundance were obtained by a variety of collecting techniques but mainly by random quadrat sampling. Other populations of the same and other carabid species were studied cursorily. 2. There was a general pattern of adult mortality which was high during the breeding season (May to July), variable from July to winter and apparently low from early winter to spring. Maximum adult densities remained fairly constant during the study period, but there were considerable differences in maximum adult density among the various populations. 3. Indirect estimates of egg-production, larval numbers and food supply were obtained in the two main populations, and of egg production in some of the other populations. The amount of egg production varied from population to population and year to year. Differences between the densities of the new generation of adults in the two main populations closely reflected preceding differences between them in egg production and larval abundance. The amount of egg production was directly related to food supply in those populations where estimates of both were available. 4. Evidence from a field enclosure experiment together with negative evidence from a consideration of other potential mortality factors suggests that the high adult mortality in the breeding season was due largely to predation, probably by small mammals. The hypoThesis, that the survival of old generation females from early July to winter is inversely related to the amount of breeding they have done, was tested in natural and experimental populations, and corroborated, though it is not clear what aspects of reproduction influence survival. 5. It is not known what determined the adult densities in any population, though it appears that weather and interspecific competition can be discounted. The possibility of food-limitation in some populations cannot be rejected but it was not universal. High survival of old adults from one breeding season to the next was important in some populations. 6. The observed stability of the population is thought to be in part a reflection of the stability of some aspects of their habitat but in addition was enhanced by an intrinsic stabilizing mechanism involving the increased survival of old adults following poor breeding.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Hill	Wetlands	1	51.77104859,-1.336246161	1961	1961	Spring;Summer	Insects	Agonum fuliginosum; Abax parallelepipedus; Pterostichus madidus	Abundance	No	No
Newson_1963_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Newson, R. (1963). Differences in numbers, reproduction and survival between two neighboring populations of bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus). Ecology, 44(1) 110-120. 10.2307/1933185	1963	Newson, R.	Differences in numbers, reproduction and survival between two neighboring populations of bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus)	Ecology				10.2307/1933185			44	1	110-120		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1958	1959	All Year	Mammals	Clethrionomys	Abundance	Yes	No
Nielsen_1952_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Nielsen, C.O. (1952). Studies on Enchytraeidae 1. A technique for extracting Enchytraeidae from soil samples. Oikos, 4(2) 187-196. 10.2307/3564814	1952	Nielsen, C.O.	Studies on Enchytraeidae 1. A technique for extracting Enchytraeidae from soil samples	Oikos				10.2307/3564814			4	2	187-196		Wytham Estate	The Dell	Grassland		51.76828124,-1.329592592	1950	1951	All Year	Annelids	Enchytraeidae	Population Density	Yes	No
Odum_1961_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Odum, E.P., Pontin, A.J. (1961). Population density of the underground ant, Lasius flavus, as determined by tagging with P32. Ecology, 42(1) 186-188. 10.2307/1933286	1961	Odum, E.P., Pontin, A.J.	Population density of the underground ant, Lasius flavus, as determined by tagging with P32	Ecology				10.2307/1933286			42	1	186-188		Wytham Estate	Bowling Alley	Grassland		51.76419830,-1.32802258	Not Reported	Not Reported	Summer	Insects	Lasius flavus	Population Density	No	No
Paviour-Smith_1968_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Paviour-Smith, K. (1968). A population study of Cis bilamellatus Wood (Coleoptera, Ciidae). Journal of Animal Ecology, 205-228. 10.2307/2720	1968	Paviour-Smith, K.	A population study of Cis bilamellatus Wood (Coleoptera, Ciidae)	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2720					205-228	1. An Australian fungus beetle, Cis bilamellatus, is a very important destroyer of dead birch bracket fungi (Polyporus betulinus) and other tree fungi in the lowlands of southern Britain. 2. Fungus fruiting-bodies are small, scattered, fairly temporary habitats which can be destroyed completely by their fauna. 3. In 1957-58 a study was made of the Cis bilamellatus populations of ten 1956-grown, one 1955-grown and one 1954-grown brackets of Polyporus betulinus on two birch trees in Wytham Woods, Berkshire. 4. The adult beetles, with a significantly higher proportion of female female than of male male, first colonized the newly dead brackets in the spring, the sex ratio remaining biased in favour of female female until the first filial generation appeared, and later not differing from 1:1. The dying fungi on the older tree tended to be colonized earlier and by larger numbers of beetles than those on the younger tree. 5. A value of the geometric rate of increase `r' of 0.0256+-0.0015 per head per day was found for four Cis bilamellatus populations growing in Polyporus betulinus in the laboratory at 24 degrees C and c. 66% R.H. This was found to agree remarkably well with a value calculated for the probable rate of increase of the population of one fungus in the field (r = 0.0207) between May and July when the mean daily temperature was only 15.2 degrees C. 6. The population changes throughout the first year are followed in the two fungi sampled most often over the longest period. After the initial immigration period, there was a fairly sudden increase in numbers by births, followed by a gentle decrease during the rest of the year, but this decline in numbers cannot be accounted for by any of the known causes of mortality, viz: the two known `predators' of larvae (a Cecidomyiid fly larva and the larva of a Bethylid wasp), interspecific competition with other Ciidae and Dipterous larvae, intraspecific competition or even low winter temperatures (which in really severe winters such as that of 1962-63 can kill the whole population). 7. There is evidence for emigration occurring in the autumn and winter as well as the spring movement which originally gave rise to the populations studied. Such emigration of newly matured adults would account completely for the annual post-breeding decline in the first and later years. 8. In the 1955-grown (and therefore second-year) fungus, the overall population picture for Cis bilamellatus was the same as in the first-year fungi except that the Bethylid wasp had been rather more abundant; in the 1954-grown (and therefore third-year) fungus the picture was again similar to that in the first-year fungi, except that other species of Ciidae were more abundant, and the C. bilamellatus population of this fungus had suffered an extremely heavy mortality, probably from low temperatures in the winter of 1955-56. 9. It was probably because of this heavy mortality that the third-year fungus lasted so long, i.e. up to the beginning of its fourth year, as a habitat and food for Ciidae. Both the second-year and third-year fungi were in 1957-58 becoming eaten out and, by then, competition for their remaining food and space must have been strong among the fungivorous insects. 10. It is considered that the density-independent mortality caused by low temperatures in a severe winter can only delay the effects of competition among the fungivorous insects (mainly C. bilamellatus in the area studied) for a limited and consumable resource such as the dead fruiting-bodies of Polyporus betulinus, and that an additional factor in the population regulation of this beetle species over a wide area is probably an overall scarcity of this habitat compared with the numbers of emigrating beetles.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	Not Reported	1958	All Year;Not Reported	Insects	Cephalonomia formiciformis;Lestodiplosis sp.;Cis bilamellatus	Population Density	Yes	No
Paviour-Smith_1978_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Paviour-Smith, K., Elbourn, C.A. (1978). Some spiders of dead wood in living trees in Wytham Woods, near Oxford. Bulletin (British Arachnological Society), 4(5) 213-220. 	1978	Paviour-Smith, K., Elbourn, C.A.	Some spiders of dead wood in living trees in Wytham Woods, near Oxford	Bulletin (British Arachnological Society)							4	5	213-220		Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1969	1969	Summer;Winter	Arachnids	Allochernes dubius;Chernes cimicoides;Leiobunum blacwalli;Mitopus morio;Oligolophus agrestis;Amaurobius sp.;Harpactea hombergi;segestria senoculata;Clubiona corticalis;Clubiona;anyphaena accentuata;philodromus;Coelotes atropos;anelosimus vittatus;Theridion mystaceum;Theridion pallens;Tetragnatha;Meta merianae;araneus sp.;zygiella atrica;Thyreosthenius parasiticus;Labulla thoracica;Lepthyphantes minutus;Linyphia montana	Abundance	No	No
Pernetta_1977_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Pernetta, J.C. (1977). Population ecology of British shrews in grassland. Acta theriologica, 22(20) 279-296. 10.4098/at.arch.77-25	1977	Pernetta, J.C.	Population ecology of British shrews in grassland	Acta Theriologica				10.4098/at.arch.77-25			22	20	279-296	The results of 25 months of live trapping common and pigmy- shrews in a grassland habitat on the Oxford University Estate at Wytham, England are presented together with data from an 18 month snap trapping programme in a similar habitat nearby. The activity of the two Sorex species in the wild is described and various population parameters such as breeding condition, litter size, density and dispersal are given. A method of age determination is detailed which permits more accurate ageing than previously possible. On the basis of these data, some suggestions are made concerning the mechanism and magni- tude of population processes in these animals.	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland		51.77016748,-1.336839512	1969	1972	All Year	Mammals	Sorex araneus;Sorex minutus	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Pernetta_1977_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Pernetta, J.C. (1977). Population ecology of British shrews in grassland. Acta theriologica, 22(20) 279-296. 10.4098/at.arch.77-25	1977	Pernetta, J.C.	Population ecology of British shrews in grassland	Acta Theriologica				10.4098/at.arch.77-25			22	20	279-296	The results of 25 months of live trapping common and pigmy- shrews in a grassland habitat on the Oxford University Estate at Wytham, England are presented together with data from an 18 month snap trapping programme in a similar habitat nearby. The activity of the two Sorex species in the wild is described and various population parameters such as breeding condition, litter size, density and dispersal are given. A method of age determination is detailed which permits more accurate ageing than previously possible. On the basis of these data, some suggestions are made concerning the mechanism and magni- tude of population processes in these animals.	Wytham Estate	Rough Common;Upper Seeds	Grassland		51.77012495,-1.332787491	1969	1972	All Year	Mammals	Sorex araneus;Sorex minutus	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Perrins_1979_WDA	Solo (Print)	Book	Perrins, C.M. (1979). British tits. New Naturalist Series, 62. 304 pp.. 	1979	Perrins, C.M.	British tits	New Naturalist Series		Collins					62		304 pp.	The book deals with seven species of tit. these include, the six members of the true tits - coal, Great, Blue, Crested, Marsh and Willow Tits - as well as the more distantly related Long-tailed Tit. In addition to dealing with the general biology and behaviour of the birds,Includes information on social lives, their intelligence and adaptiveness, and ability to adjust their population sizes to the future availability of food. [Many references to research in Wytham Woods]	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	Not Reported	1978	All Year	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Crested tit;Poecile palustris;Poecile montanus;Aegithalos caudatus	Abundance;Other;Population Density	Yes	No
Pontin_1961_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Pontin, A.J. (1961). Population stabilization and competition between the ants Lasius flavus (F.) and L. niger (L.). Journal of Animal Ecology, 47-54. 10.2307/2112	1961	Pontin, A.J.	Population stabilization and competition between the ants Lasius flavus (F.) and L. niger (L.)	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2112					47-54	1. Population stabilizing factors are defined as those which counteract the effects of irregular environmental changes on population density. Interspecific competition is defined as an interaction which lowers the densities of the competing species compared with the density each would achieve if present alone. 2. Evidence is given for stabilization of populations of the ants L. flavus (F.) and L. niger (L.) by intraspecific competition and for stable interspecific competition between these species. 3. Gause's hypoThesis is reconsidered and rejected.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Grassland	1	51.767046,-1.328857	1956	1957	Not Reported	Insects	Lasius flavus;Lasius niger	Abundance	Yes	No
Rennie_2006_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Rennie, S.C., Sherrin, L., Irvine, L., Lane, M., Scott, A., Parr, T., Adamson, J.K., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J. (2006). The United Kingdom Environmental Change Network Annual Data Digest 2005. Part 1-Terrestrial sites. , 	2006	Rennie, S.C., Sherrin, L., Irvine, L., Lane, M., Scott, A., Parr, T., Adamson, J.K., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J.	The United Kingdom Environmental Change Network Annual Data Digest 2005. Part 1-Terrestrial sites							http://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/4110					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Wetlands;Grassland;Soil;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2005	All Year	BirdsInsects	Abax;Agonum;Amara;Calathus;Carabus;Harpalus;Laemostenus;Leistus;Nebria;Notiophilus;Pterostichus;Stomis;Philaenus spumarius;Neophilaenus lineatus;Polyommatus bellargus;Gonepteryx rhamni;Aricia agestis;Thecla betulae;Polyommatus coridon;Colias croceus;Polygonia c-album;Polyommatus icarus;Argynnis aglaja;Erynnis tages;Hamearis lucina;Thymelicus lineola;Hipparchia semele;Callophrys rubi;Pyrgus malvae;Satyrus ferula;Celastrina argiolus;Ochlodes sylvanus;Melanargia galathea;Euphydryas aurinia;Maniola jurtina;Pieris rapae;Pieris napi;Pieris brassicae;Anthocharis cardamines;Vanessa cardui;Inachis io;Boloria euphrosyne;Apatura iris;Neozephyrus quercus;Vanessa atalanta;Aphantopus hyperantus;Hesperia comma;Argynnis paphia;Cupido minimus;Lycaena phlaeas;Coenonympha pamphilus;Boloria selene;Thymelicus sylvestris;Aglais urticae;Pieris rapae;Pararge aegeria;Lasiommata megera;Limenitis camilla;Satyrium w-albumGeometridae;Noctuidae;Microlepidoptera;Geometridae;Noctule;Myotid;Pipistrelle;Plecotus auritus;Serotine;Nyctalus leisleri;Rhinolophus;Barbastelle;Capreolus capreolus;Cervus elaphus;Rana temporaria	Abundance	Yes	Yes
Rennie_2006_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Rennie, S.C., Sherrin, L., Irvine, L., Lane, M., Scott, A., Parr, T., Adamson, J.K., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J. (2006). The United Kingdom Environmental Change Network Annual Data Digest 2005. Part 1-Terrestrial sites. , 	2006	Rennie, S.C., Sherrin, L., Irvine, L., Lane, M., Scott, A., Parr, T., Adamson, J.K., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J.	The United Kingdom Environmental Change Network Annual Data Digest 2005. Part 1-Terrestrial sites							http://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/4110					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Wetlands;Grassland;Soil;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2005	All Year	BirdsMammals	Abax;Agonum;Amara;Calathus;Carabus;Harpalus;Laemostenus;Leistus;Nebria;Notiophilus;Pterostichus;Stomis;Philaenus spumarius;Neophilaenus lineatus;Polyommatus bellargus;Gonepteryx rhamni;Aricia agestis;Thecla betulae;Polyommatus coridon;Colias croceus;Polygonia c-album;Polyommatus icarus;Argynnis aglaja;Erynnis tages;Hamearis lucina;Thymelicus lineola;Hipparchia semele;Callophrys rubi;Pyrgus malvae;Satyrus ferula;Celastrina argiolus;Ochlodes sylvanus;Melanargia galathea;Euphydryas aurinia;Maniola jurtina;Pieris rapae;Pieris napi;Pieris brassicae;Anthocharis cardamines;Vanessa cardui;Inachis io;Boloria euphrosyne;Apatura iris;Neozephyrus quercus;Vanessa atalanta;Aphantopus hyperantus;Hesperia comma;Argynnis paphia;Cupido minimus;Lycaena phlaeas;Coenonympha pamphilus;Boloria selene;Thymelicus sylvestris;Aglais urticae;Pieris rapae;Pararge aegeria;Lasiommata megera;Limenitis camilla;Satyrium w-albumGeometridae;Noctuidae;Microlepidoptera;Geometridae;Noctule;Myotid;Pipistrelle;Plecotus auritus;Serotine;Nyctalus leisleri;Rhinolophus;Barbastelle;Capreolus capreolus;Cervus elaphus;Rana temporaria	Abundance	Yes	Yes
Rennie_2006_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Rennie, S.C., Sherrin, L., Irvine, L., Lane, M., Scott, A., Parr, T., Adamson, J.K., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J. (2006). The United Kingdom Environmental Change Network Annual Data Digest 2005. Part 1-Terrestrial sites. , 	2006	Rennie, S.C., Sherrin, L., Irvine, L., Lane, M., Scott, A., Parr, T., Adamson, J.K., Anderson, R., Andrews, C., Bater, J.	The United Kingdom Environmental Change Network Annual Data Digest 2005. Part 1-Terrestrial sites							http://nora.nerc.ac.uk/id/eprint/4110					Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Wetlands;Grassland;Soil;Stream;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2005	All Year	BirdsInsects	Abax;Agonum;Amara;Calathus;Carabus;Harpalus;Laemostenus;Leistus;Nebria;Notiophilus;Pterostichus;Stomis;Philaenus spumarius;Neophilaenus lineatus;Polyommatus bellargus;Gonepteryx rhamni;Aricia agestis;Thecla betulae;Polyommatus coridon;Colias croceus;Polygonia c-album;Polyommatus icarus;Argynnis aglaja;Erynnis tages;Hamearis lucina;Thymelicus lineola;Hipparchia semele;Callophrys rubi;Pyrgus malvae;Satyrus ferula;Celastrina argiolus;Ochlodes sylvanus;Melanargia galathea;Euphydryas aurinia;Maniola jurtina;Pieris rapae;Pieris napi;Pieris brassicae;Anthocharis cardamines;Vanessa cardui;Inachis io;Boloria euphrosyne;Apatura iris;Neozephyrus quercus;Vanessa atalanta;Aphantopus hyperantus;Hesperia comma;Argynnis paphia;Cupido minimus;Lycaena phlaeas;Coenonympha pamphilus;Boloria selene;Thymelicus sylvestris;Aglais urticae;Pieris rapae;Pararge aegeria;Lasiommata megera;Limenitis camilla;Satyrium w-albumGeometridae;Noctuidae;Microlepidoptera;Geometridae;Noctule;Myotid;Pipistrelle;Plecotus auritus;Serotine;Nyctalus leisleri;Rhinolophus;Barbastelle;Capreolus capreolus;Cervus elaphus;Rana temporaria	Abundance	Yes	Yes
Rose_2016_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Rose, R., Monteith, D.T., Henrys, P., Smart, S., Wood, C., Morecroft, M., Andrews, C., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V. (2016). Evidence for increases in vegetation species richness across UK Environmental Change Network sites linked to changes in air pollution and weather patterns. Ecological indicators, 68(52-62. 10.1016/j.ecolind.2016.01.005	2016	Rose, R., Monteith, D.T., Henrys, P., Smart, S., Wood, C., Morecroft, M., Andrews, C., Beaumont, D., Benham, S., Bowmaker, V.	Evidence for increases in vegetation species richness across UK Environmental Change Network sites linked to changes in air pollution and weather patterns	Ecological Indicators				10.1016/j.ecolind.2016.01.005			68		52-62	We analysed trends in vegetation monitored at regular intervals over the past two decades (1993-2012) at the twelve terrestrial Environmental Change Network (ECN) sites. We sought to determine the extent to which flora had changed and link any such changes to potential environmental drivers. We observed significant increases in species richness, both at a whole network level, and when data were analysed within Broad Habitat groupings representing the open uplands, open lowlands and woodlands. We also found comparable increases in an indicator of vegetation response to soil pH, Ellenberg R. Species characteristic of less acid soils tended to show more consistent increases in frequency across sites relative to species with a known tolerance for strongly acidic soils. These changes are, therefore, broadly consistent with a response to increases in soil solution pH observed for the majority of ECN sites that, in turn, are likely to be driven by large reductions in acid deposition in recent decades. Increases in species richness in certain habitat groupings could also be linked to increased soil moisture availability in drier lowland sites that are likely to have been influenced by a trend towards wetter summers in recent years, and possibly also to a reduction in soil nitrogen availability in some upland locations. Changes in site management are also likely to have influenced trends at certain sites, particularly with respect to agricultural practices. Our results are therefore indicative of widescale responses to major regional-scale changes in air pollution and recent weather patterns, modified by local management effects. The relative consistency of management of ECN sites over time is atypical of much of the wider countryside and it is therefore not appropriate to scale up these observations to infer national scale trends. Nevertheless the results provide an important insight into processes that may be operating nationally. It will now be necessary to test for the ubiquity of these changes using appropriate broader spatial scale survey data.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland	2	51.768935,-1.329199	1993	2011	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Richness	Yes	No
Shore_1997_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Shore, R.F., Feber, R.E., Firbank, L.G., Fishwick, S.K., Macdonald, D.W., Norum, U. (1997). The impacts of molluscicide pellets on spring and autumn populations of wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus. Agriculture, ecosystems & environment, 64(3) 211-217. 10.1016/s0167-8809(97)00039-x	1997	Shore, R.F., Feber, R.E., Firbank, L.G., Fishwick, S.K., Macdonald, D.W., Norum, U.	The impacts of molluscicide pellets on spring and autumn populations of wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus	Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment				10.1016/s0167-8809(97)00039-x			64	3	211-217	Methiocarb is a carbamate molluscicide widely used in pelleted form. Wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus are commonly found in arable fields and will eat methiocarb pellets. Two previous field studies on the impacts on arable wood mice of broadcasting methiocarb pellets produced contrasting results, the number of mice being temporarily reduced in one but not the other. The season of application is also likely to influence the degree of impact on populations but the previous trials were both in autumn. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects on wood mice of broadcast applications of methiocarb in both autumn and spring and to determine whether depression of brain and serum cholinesterase (ChE) activity, a biomarker of exposure, could be detected in mice alive on treated fields after application. In trials carried out in October 1994 and April 1995, there were decreases in the number of wood mice on arable fields following pesticide application. The October decline (78%) was greater than that in April (33%), even though the activity of the mice appeared to be more heavily centred on the hedgerows, where pellets were not applied, in the autumn. Despite the reductions in numbers, no depression of ChE activity was detected in mice captured alive after application, suggesting that either exposed animals were not captured or that reactivation of ChE activity was rapid. This study confirmed that broadcast application of methiocarb can reduce wood mouse populations on arable fields. It also demonstrated that such effects can occur irrespective of season and that measurement of ChE activity in mice trapped after application may fail to indicate that exposure of the population has occurred.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable		51.777785 ,-1.3346545	1994	1995	Autumn;Spring	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Smith_1997_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Smith, H., McAllum, K., Macdonald, D.W. (1997). Experimental comparison of the nature conservation value, productivity and ease of management of a conventional and a more species-rich grass ley. Journal of Applied Ecology, 34(53-64. 10.2307/2404847	1997	Smith, H., McAllum, K., Macdonald, D.W.	Experimental comparison of the nature conservation value, productivity and ease of management of a conventional and a more species-rich grass ley	Journal of Applied Ecology				10.2307/2404847			34		53-64	1. A large-scale field experiment was used to evaluate two contrasting grass leys in terms of nature conservation value, productivity and ease of management. The leys were suitable either for green cover on land removed from arable production (as part of Set-Aside or similar schemes) or for low-input agriculture or amenity uses. 2. One ley was a conventional mixture of cultivars of Phleum pratense L. (timothy or cat's-tail), Lolium perenne L. (ryegrass) and Trifolium repens L. (white clover). The other was a more species-rich mixture, based on 19th century 'herbal' leys. It comprised six indigenous grasses and three forbs and excluded L. perenne and T. repens. 3. The leys were managed both as hay and silage and were grown both with and without the appropriate fertilizer applications. 4. Over a three-year period the more species-rich ley retained more sown species and accommodated more naturally regenerating species than the conventional ley. Loss of sown species increased at high fertilizer levels. Numbers of both sown and naturally regenerating species were lower under the silage than the hay cutting regime. These results are discussed in relation to the relative dominance of sown species. 5. The more species-rich ley was also less productive and consequently easier to manage by infrequent mowing. 6. We conclude that carefully selected but simple mixtures of indigenous grasses and forbs are likely to satisfy a diverse range of management requirements, whilst at the same time benefiting wildlife and visual amenity in the wider countryside. Key recommendations are emboldened in the Discussion.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Farmland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1991	Autumn;Summer	Vascular plants	Alopecurus myosuroides;Avena species;Bromus sterilis;Elymus repens;Lolium perenne;Phleum pretense;Trifolium repens; Dactylisglomerata; Festuca pratensis	Richness	Yes	No
Smith_1993_WDA	External	Book	Smith, W., Feber, R.E., Johnson, P.J., McCallum, K., Plesner Jensen, S., Younes, M., Macdonald, D.W. (1993). The Conservation management of arable field margins. English Nature Science Series, 18	1993	Smith, W., Feber, R.E., Johnson, P.J., McCallum, K., Plesner Jensen, S., Younes, M., Macdonald, D.W.	The Conservation management of arable field margins	English Nature Science		English Nature				http://hdl.handle.net/10068/369514	18				Wytham Estate	University Farm	Farmland;Grassland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1989	Spring;Summer	Insects	Centaurea nigra;Centaurea scabiosa;Clinopodium vulgare;Galium verum;Hypericum hirsutum H. perforatum;Knautia arvensis;Leontodon hispidus;Leucanthemum vulgare;Primula veris;Prunella vulgaris;Ranunculus acris;Ranunculus bulbosus;Silene larifolia subsp alba;Silene vulgaris;Torilis japonica;Tragopogon pratensis;;Cynosurus cristatus;Festuca rubra 'commutata';;Festuca rubra 'littoralis';Hordeum secalinum;Phleum pratense subsp bertolonii;Poa pratensis;Trisetum flavescens;Achillea millefolium;Agrimonia expatorium;Allium vineale;Arum maculatum;Bellis perennis;Centaurea scabiosa;Cirsium eriophorum;Gallium mollugo;Geum urbanum;Lathyrus pratensis;Ranunculus ficaria;Silene dioica;Silene vulgaris;Stellaria holostea;Trifolium pratense;Veronica chamaedrys;Viola odorata;Perennial grasses;Bromus erectus;Brachypodium sylvanicum;Carex otrubac;Deschampsia cespitosa;Festuca gigantea;Coryllus avellana;Solanum dulcamara;Maniola jurtina;Pyronia rithonus;Coenonympha pamphilus;Melanargia galathea;Aglais urticae;Polyommatus icarus;Pieris napae;Ochlodes venata;Pieris brassicae;Pieris rapae;Vanessa atalanta	Richness	Yes	No
Smith_1993_WDA	External	Book	Smith, W., Feber, R.E., Johnson, P.J., McCallum, K., Plesner Jensen, S., Younes, M., Macdonald, D.W. (1993). The Conservation management of arable field margins. English Nature Science Series, 18	1993	Smith, W., Feber, R.E., Johnson, P.J., McCallum, K., Plesner Jensen, S., Younes, M., Macdonald, D.W.	The Conservation management of arable field margins	English Nature Science		English Nature				http://hdl.handle.net/10068/369514	18				Wytham Estate	University Farm	Farmland;Grassland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1989	Spring;Summer	Vascular plants	Centaurea nigra;Centaurea scabiosa;Clinopodium vulgare;Galium verum;Hypericum hirsutum H. perforatum;Knautia arvensis;Leontodon hispidus;Leucanthemum vulgare;Primula veris;Prunella vulgaris;Ranunculus acris;Ranunculus bulbosus;Silene larifolia subsp alba;Silene vulgaris;Torilis japonica;Tragopogon pratensis;;Cynosurus cristatus;Festuca rubra 'commutata';;Festuca rubra 'littoralis';Hordeum secalinum;Phleum pratense subsp bertolonii;Poa pratensis;Trisetum flavescens;Achillea millefolium;Agrimonia expatorium;Allium vineale;Arum maculatum;Bellis perennis;Centaurea scabiosa;Cirsium eriophorum;Gallium mollugo;Geum urbanum;Lathyrus pratensis;Ranunculus ficaria;Silene dioica;Silene vulgaris;Stellaria holostea;Trifolium pratense;Veronica chamaedrys;Viola odorata;Perennial grasses;Bromus erectus;Brachypodium sylvanicum;Carex otrubac;Deschampsia cespitosa;Festuca gigantea;Coryllus avellana;Solanum dulcamara;Maniola jurtina;Pyronia rithonus;Coenonympha pamphilus;Melanargia galathea;Aglais urticae;Polyommatus icarus;Pieris napae;Ochlodes venata;Pieris brassicae;Pieris rapae;Vanessa atalanta	Richness	Yes	No
Southern_1973_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Southern, H.N. (1973). A yardstick for measuring populations of small rodents. Mammal Review, 3(1) 1-10. 10.1111/j.1365-2907.1973.tb00162.x	1973	Southern, H.N.	A yardstick for measuring populations of small rodents	Mammal Review				10.1111/j.1365-2907.1973.tb00162.x			3	1	01/10/2023	(1) Six‚Äêmonthly trappings (summer and winter) were done between 1952 and 1969 of Wood mice (Apodemus sylvaticus) and Bank voles (Clethrionomys glareolus) in Wytham Woods, near Oxford. One hundred and fifty Longworth live traps were used on two 2‚Äêacre grids in oak‚Äêash‚Äêsycamore woodland. (2) The traps were pre‚Äêbaited for 48 hours and then set. The catch was examined on the evening of the same day and on the following morning. The total of animals caught during the 24 hours was used as an index to the actual numbers present. Animals retrapped in the morning (identified by a simple method of marking) were omitted from the total. (3) Between 1969 and 1972 the same procedure was used but trapping, evening and morning, was continued for 3‚Äê4more days until some 75-80% of the catch consisted of marked animals. (4) This enabled estimates to be made of the actual numbers of voles and mice present at each trapping and so to assess the proportion of the total present which was caught ring the first 24 hours. (5) These estimates were made by (Method la) a straight Lincoln Index, (Method lb) a Lincoln Index method as modified by Hayne (1949) and (Method 2) by Hayne's trap‚Äêout method. Over six trappings the estimates by these methods showed reasonable agreement. (6) Comparison of the index trapping (i.e. the numbers caught during the first 24 hours) with the estimates of the total numbers present showed that, on all occasions, more than half of the mice and voles present entered the traps during the first 24 hours. With Bank voles there was a tendency for about half of them to be trapped during this time during the winter and about three‚Äêquarters of them during the summer. (7) With Wood mice the figures are more variable but, again, never less than half were trapped during the first 24 hours and, on some occasions, nearly the whole of the population. (8) These results show that reasonably accurate estimates of the numbers of these rodents can be achieved within 3-4 days' trapping (estimates that can be cross‚Äêchecked by different methods) by using a high density of traps (see (1) above). Furthermore, trapping for 24 hours only will always catch at least half of the population present and, on occasions, considerably more than half.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1969	1972	Summer;Winter	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys glareolus;Microtus agrestis	Other	Yes	No
Southern_1968_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Southern, H.N., Lowe, V.P.W. (1968). The pattern of distribution of prey and predation in tawny owl territories. Journal of Animal Ecology, 75-97. 10.2307/2712	1968	Southern, H.N., Lowe, V.P.W.	The pattern of distribution of prey and predation in tawny owl territories	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2712					75-97	1. Parallel population studies were done on a predator, the tawny owl (Strix aluco), and on its two main prey species, the wood mouse (Apodemus sylvaticus) and the bank vole (Clethrionomys glareolus) in deciduous woodland on the Wytham Estate, near Oxford, from October 1954 to August 1956. 2. The study area of 260 ac (104 ha), in Wytham Great Wood, contained a trapping grid of 120 ac (49 ha) on which, approximately every 2 months, mice and voles were caught, marked with numbered metal leg-rings and released. On this area the tawny owl population, consisting of eleven pairs, was censused and their breeding success recorded; only two of them had territories entirely within the trapping grid. 3. The territorial boundaries of these owls were mapped from observations made at dusk. A check on the observations was rendered possible by searching for pellets regurgitated by the owls and containing the indigestible parts of their prey, including marking rings. Of 1992 rodents marked, 160 were traced subsequently in pellets. 4. Since the home ranges of the rodents are small, the distribution of the locations where the recovered rings had originally been put on the prey delimits the areas in which each pair of owls hunted. The territory boundaries indicated from these data show very close agreement with the boundaries plotted from observations. This confirmed the validity of the observational method, which was being used for long-term census work on the whole estate (1000 ac, 405 ha). 5. A map of the trapping grid was prepared in terms of four categories of density of ground vegetation, ranging from almost bare ground under heavy canopy, where hunting is easy, to ground covered with a dense and high growth of bracken and bramble where hunting would be very difficult. 6. The trapping results showed that about five wood mice per ac were caught in each of the cover categories. The catches of bank voles were of this order in the barest covertype but increased with density of vegetation until they were three times as numerous in the thick bracken-bramble cover. 7. The recovery of marking rings from owl pellets showed that the owls caught bank voles in the four cover-types in the same proportions as did the traps. However, of wood mice they caught proportionately many more than the traps on the bare areas and many less than the traps in the densely vegetated areas. There was no evidence of selection by the owls between the sexes or size classes of the prey. 8. These results suggest that owl territories with plenty of bare ground will provide conditions for the most successful hunting when wood mice are abundant, whereas the territories in which the intermediate cover types predominate will be better when bank voles are abundant. 9. During the period of study both species of prey were scarce in the 1955 breeding season, whereas in the 1956 season the voles had increased in numbers markedly, the wood mice only slightly. 10. In 1955 only two pairs of tawny owls on the area studied even attempted to breed, though both fledged young successfully. In 1956 seven pairs attempted to breed, of which three fledged young. Breeding performance is a sensitive index to availability of prey in spring. 11. A comparison of breeding performance in these 2 years with features of each territory suggests that, in addition to the level of prey density, other characteristics, viz. territory size, the distribution of ground cover, and the previous experience of territory owners all contribute significantly to breeding success.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1954	1956	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus;Clethrionomys glareolus;Strix aluco	Abundance;Population Density	Yes	No
Spriggs_1992_WDA	Solo (Print)	Miscellaneous	Spriggs, A.I. (1992). Wytham Woods mollusc list 1991-1992. 	1992	Spriggs, A.I.	Wytham Woods mollusc list 1991-1992			Unpublished								Update of Biological Recording Scheme, in the 2x2 km squares occupied by Wytham Woods	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	1992	Not Reported	Molluscs	Acanthinula aculeata;Aegopinella nitidula;Aegopinella pura;Arianta arbustorum;Arion ater (agg.);Arion circumscriptus (agg.);Arion hortensis (agg.);Arion intermedius;Arion subfuscus;Azeca goodalli;Carychium minimum;Carychium tridentatum;Cepaea nemoralis;Clausilia bidentata;Cochlicopa lubrica (seg.) ;Cochlodina laminata;Deroceras reticulatum;Discus rotundatus;Ena obscura;Euconulus fulvus (seg.);Lauria cylindracea;Limax marginatus;Limax maximus;Macrogastra rolphii;Milax budapestensis;Nesovitrea hammonis ;Oxychilus alliarius;Oxychilus cellarius;Oxychilus helveticus;Pomatias elegans ;Punctum pygmaeum;Trichia hispida ;Trichia striolata;Vitrea contracta;Vitrea crystallina;Vitrina pellucida	Other	No	No
Sutton_1968_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Sutton, S.L. (1968). The population dynamics of Trichoniscus pusillus and Philoscia muscorum (Crustacea, Oniscoidea) in limestone grassland. Journal of Animal Ecology, 425-444. 10.2307/2958	1968	Sutton, S.L.	The population dynamics of Trichoniscus pusillus and Philoscia muscorum (Crustacea, Oniscoidea) in limestone grassland	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2958					425-444	1. The population dynamics of the woodlice Philoscia muscorum (Scopoli) and Trichoniscus pusillus pusillus (Brandt) living in limestone grassland in Wytham Woods, Berkshire, were studied between March 1964 and March 1966. 2. Densities of over 2000/m2 were found for Trichoniscus at the height of the breeding season. Minimal figures before recruitment were 830 in 1964 and 495 a year later. Figures for Philoscia were generally very much less than these. 3. The total live weight of Trichoniscus was greater than that of Philoscia in the spring of 1964 and 1966, but the position was reversed in 1965. 4. Size structure analysis showed the Trichoniscus population to have been severely affected by the drought of 1964. Growth and breeding almost ceased. Initially in the following year recruitment was very poor, because few animals had matured, but later good growth and recruitment largely re-established the pre-drought size structure, numbers and biomass. Philoscia showed none of these reactions to drought conditions. 5. The two breeding seasons in Philoscia were short and did not vary. In Trichoniscus they were long and very different, with an April breeding peak in 1964 and twin peaks in May and August during 1965. 6. Embryo production in Trichoniscus was 5847/m2 in 1964 and 2390 in 1965. Figures estimated for Philoscia were 219/m2 and 284 respectively. 7. Mortality of Trichoniscus juveniles was greater in 1964 than 1965, but the drought was not the cause. In this species life expectancy fell sharply on completion of breeding. Juvenile mortality was severe in both species. Mortality decreased exponentially in Philoscia, but in Trichoniscus the pattern was more complex. 8. Trichoniscus survived the drought by vertical migration deep into the soil, while Philoscia stayed within sampling range, seeming to have a physiological tolerance of extreme conditions. Size alone cannot explain this difference in behaviour. 9. In Trichoniscus there are indications of compensatory mechanisms tending to maintain a characteristic size structure and some stability of numbers and biomass. Philoscia showed numerical stability but biomass fell by 50% during the period of study.	Wytham Estate	Sunday's Hill	Grassland		51.76230215,-1.332130127	1964	1966	All Year	Crustaceans	Trichoniscus pusillus;Philoscia muscorum	Population Density	Yes	No
Sutton_1968_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Sutton, S.L. (1968). The population dynamics of Trichoniscus pusillus and Philoscia muscorum (Crustacea, Oniscoidea) in limestone grassland. Journal of Animal Ecology, 425-444. 10.2307/2958	1968	Sutton, S.L.	The population dynamics of Trichoniscus pusillus and Philoscia muscorum (Crustacea, Oniscoidea) in limestone grassland	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/2958					425-444	1. The population dynamics of the woodlice Philoscia muscorum (Scopoli) and Trichoniscus pusillus pusillus (Brandt) living in limestone grassland in Wytham Woods, Berkshire, were studied between March 1964 and March 1966. 2. Densities of over 2000/m2 were found for Trichoniscus at the height of the breeding season. Minimal figures before recruitment were 830 in 1964 and 495 a year later. Figures for Philoscia were generally very much less than these. 3. The total live weight of Trichoniscus was greater than that of Philoscia in the spring of 1964 and 1966, but the position was reversed in 1965. 4. Size structure analysis showed the Trichoniscus population to have been severely affected by the drought of 1964. Growth and breeding almost ceased. Initially in the following year recruitment was very poor, because few animals had matured, but later good growth and recruitment largely re-established the pre-drought size structure, numbers and biomass. Philoscia showed none of these reactions to drought conditions. 5. The two breeding seasons in Philoscia were short and did not vary. In Trichoniscus they were long and very different, with an April breeding peak in 1964 and twin peaks in May and August during 1965. 6. Embryo production in Trichoniscus was 5847/m2 in 1964 and 2390 in 1965. Figures estimated for Philoscia were 219/m2 and 284 respectively. 7. Mortality of Trichoniscus juveniles was greater in 1964 than 1965, but the drought was not the cause. In this species life expectancy fell sharply on completion of breeding. Juvenile mortality was severe in both species. Mortality decreased exponentially in Philoscia, but in Trichoniscus the pattern was more complex. 8. Trichoniscus survived the drought by vertical migration deep into the soil, while Philoscia stayed within sampling range, seeming to have a physiological tolerance of extreme conditions. Size alone cannot explain this difference in behaviour. 9. In Trichoniscus there are indications of compensatory mechanisms tending to maintain a characteristic size structure and some stability of numbers and biomass. Philoscia showed numerical stability but biomass fell by 50% during the period of study.	Wytham Estate	Sunday's Hill	Grassland		51.76230215,-1.332130127	1964	1966	All Year	Insects	Trichoniscus pusillus;Philoscia muscorum	Population Density	Yes	No
Tew_1993_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Tew, T.E., Macdonald, D.W. (1993). The effects of harvest on arable wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus. Biological Conservation, 65(3) 279-283. 10.1016/0006-3207(93)90060-e	1993	Tew, T.E., Macdonald, D.W.	The effects of harvest on arable wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus	Biological Conservation				10.1016/0006-3207(93)90060-e			65	3	279-283	The effects of cereal harvesting on the ecology of wood mice Apodemus sylvaticus were investigated at three arable study sites in Oxfordshire from 1987 to 1991 using both radio-tracking and live-trapping methodologies. The process of harvesting itself had little direct effect on the mice, but the removal of the cover afforded by the crop greatly increased predation pressure on the mice. After harvest, mice either emigrated from the arable ecosystem or reduced activity. Nevertheless, over half (17 of 32) of the mice radio-collared before harvest were taken by predators in the first week following harvest. Together with emigration, this produced an 80% decrease in the population. Post-harvest activities such as stubble burning subsequently further increased mortality. The dramatic increase in prey availability may benefit predators of small mammals in the cereal ecosystem such as tawny owls Strix aluco and weasels Mustela nivalis.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Arable		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	1991	All Year	Mammals	Apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	Yes	No
Tew_1994_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Tew, T.E., Todd, I.A., Macdonald, D.W. (1994). The effects of trap spacing on population estimation of small mammals. Journal of Zoology, 233(2) 340-344. 10.1111/j.1469-7998.1994.tb08598.x	1994	Tew, T.E., Todd, I.A., Macdonald, D.W.	The effects of trap spacing on population estimation of small mammals	Journal of Zoology				10.1111/j.1469-7998.1994.tb08598.x			233	2	340-344		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Arable		51.777785 ,-1.3346545	1990	1990	Autumn	Mammals	apodemus sylvaticus	Abundance	No	No
Thomas_1987_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Thomas, D.E. (1987). Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976. Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee, 23 pp.. 	1987	Thomas, D.E.	Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976	Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee		Unpublished							23 pp.	This report examines recent (1976-87) ecological research carried out in Wytham Woods. It concentrates on how this work has increased understanding of communities and shows that Wytham Woods is, and is likely to remain, a focus for this type of study.  Whether communities consist of tightly linked groups of species or not is a major ecological controversy Work In Vytham Woods has not looked at communities specifically but rather has concentrated on certain species and habitats. Nevertheless it is possible to analyse the results for the type and extent of linkages found within communities. The type of linkages observed include competition, herbivory, scavenging, predation and parasitism, whilst their strength varies from hardly detectable to strong enough to regulate populations.  The most intensively studied species, such as the winter moth and great tit, have revealed the greatest number and strongest links. This suggests that the more a community is studied, the more links will be found. Results also show that mere assemblages are rare occurrences if in fact they exist at all. The report therefore recommends further studies on community structure and suggests that all communities consist of groups of species which interact to varying degrees.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1976	1987	Not Reported	Birds	Operophtera brumata;Parus palustris;Parus ater;Parus montanus;Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Tawny owl	Community Composition	No	No
Thomas_1987_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Thomas, D.E. (1987). Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976. Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee, 23 pp.. 	1987	Thomas, D.E.	Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976	Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee		Unpublished							23 pp.	This report examines recent (1976-87) ecological research carried out in Wytham Woods. It concentrates on how this work has increased understanding of communities and shows that Wytham Woods is, and is likely to remain, a focus for this type of study.  Whether communities consist of tightly linked groups of species or not is a major ecological controversy Work In Vytham Woods has not looked at communities specifically but rather has concentrated on certain species and habitats. Nevertheless it is possible to analyse the results for the type and extent of linkages found within communities. The type of linkages observed include competition, herbivory, scavenging, predation and parasitism, whilst their strength varies from hardly detectable to strong enough to regulate populations.  The most intensively studied species, such as the winter moth and great tit, have revealed the greatest number and strongest links. This suggests that the more a community is studied, the more links will be found. Results also show that mere assemblages are rare occurrences if in fact they exist at all. The report therefore recommends further studies on community structure and suggests that all communities consist of groups of species which interact to varying degrees.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1976	1987	Not Reported	Birds	Operophtera brumata;Parus palustris;Parus ater;Parus montanus;Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Tawny owl	Community Composition	No	No
Thomas_1987_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Thomas, D.E. (1987). Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976. Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee, 23 pp.. 	1987	Thomas, D.E.	Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976	Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee		Unpublished							23 pp.	This report examines recent (1976-87) ecological research carried out in Wytham Woods. It concentrates on how this work has increased understanding of communities and shows that Wytham Woods is, and is likely to remain, a focus for this type of study.  Whether communities consist of tightly linked groups of species or not is a major ecological controversy Work In Vytham Woods has not looked at communities specifically but rather has concentrated on certain species and habitats. Nevertheless it is possible to analyse the results for the type and extent of linkages found within communities. The type of linkages observed include competition, herbivory, scavenging, predation and parasitism, whilst their strength varies from hardly detectable to strong enough to regulate populations.  The most intensively studied species, such as the winter moth and great tit, have revealed the greatest number and strongest links. This suggests that the more a community is studied, the more links will be found. Results also show that mere assemblages are rare occurrences if in fact they exist at all. The report therefore recommends further studies on community structure and suggests that all communities consist of groups of species which interact to varying degrees.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1976	1987	Not Reported	Insects	Operophtera brumata;Parus palustris;Parus ater;Parus montanus;Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Tawny owl	Community Composition	No	No
Thomas_1987_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Thomas, D.E. (1987). Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976. Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee, 23 pp.. 	1987	Thomas, D.E.	Developments in the study of community structure in Wytham Woods, Oxfordshire since 1976	Evaluative Report for Wytham Management Committee		Unpublished							23 pp.	This report examines recent (1976-87) ecological research carried out in Wytham Woods. It concentrates on how this work has increased understanding of communities and shows that Wytham Woods is, and is likely to remain, a focus for this type of study.  Whether communities consist of tightly linked groups of species or not is a major ecological controversy Work In Vytham Woods has not looked at communities specifically but rather has concentrated on certain species and habitats. Nevertheless it is possible to analyse the results for the type and extent of linkages found within communities. The type of linkages observed include competition, herbivory, scavenging, predation and parasitism, whilst their strength varies from hardly detectable to strong enough to regulate populations.  The most intensively studied species, such as the winter moth and great tit, have revealed the greatest number and strongest links. This suggests that the more a community is studied, the more links will be found. Results also show that mere assemblages are rare occurrences if in fact they exist at all. The report therefore recommends further studies on community structure and suggests that all communities consist of groups of species which interact to varying degrees.  	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified);Brogden's Belt	Woodland		51.76980382,-1.329488932	1976	1987	Not Reported	Insects	Operophtera brumata;Parus palustris;Parus ater;Parus montanus;Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Tawny owl	Community Composition	No	No
Thomas_1992_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Dataset	Thomas, R., Porter, K., Garnett, S., Gibson, C., Savill, P. (1992). Tree survey 1991-1992 	1992	Thomas, R., Porter, K., Garnett, S., Gibson, C., Savill, P.	Tree survey 1991-1992 												Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	1991	Summer	Non-Vascular plants		Other	No	Yes
Thomas_1992_WDA	Oxford University (Other)	Dataset	Thomas, R., Porter, K., Garnett, S., Gibson, C., Savill, P. (1992). Tree survey 1991-1992 	1992	Thomas, R., Porter, K., Garnett, S., Gibson, C., Savill, P.	Tree survey 1991-1992 												Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	1991	Summer	Vascular plants		Other	No	Yes
Thomas_1992_WDA	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Thomas, R.C., Kirby, K.J. (1992). Seventeen years of change in the structure and composition of Wytham Woods (Oxfordshire). Aspects of applied biology, 29(49-55. 	1992	Thomas, R.C., Kirby, K.J.	Seventeen years of change in the structure and composition of Wytham Woods (Oxfordshire)	Aspects of Applied Biology							29		49-55	Preliminary results from re-recording 164 permanent 10 x 10 m plots in Wytham Woods (Oxfordshire, established between 1973-1976 ( the Dawkins plots)) in 1991 show changes in tree, shrub and ground layers since establishment of the plots in 1974. Rubus fruticosus agg. (bramble) has declined greatly in abundance, probably because of browsing by deer. Some plots show large declines in ground flora diversity as plantations have grown and the canopy has closed; other plots have increased in richness where rides have been widened. There is a need for more long-term studies of woodland to separate cyclical changes in local species occurrence from long-term changes in a wood as a whole.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1991	1991	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Rubus fruticosus;Urtica dioica	Abundance;Richness	Not Reported	Not Reported
Todd_1949_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Todd, V. (1949). The habits and ecology of the British harvestmen (Arachnida, Opiliones), with special reference to those of the Oxford district. Journal of Animal Ecology, 209-229. 10.2307/1600	1949	Todd, V.	The habits and ecology of the British harvestmen (Arachnida, Opiliones), with special reference to those of the Oxford district	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/1600					209-229	1. The twenty-one British species of harvestmen have all been found in the Oxford district with the exception of Nelima silvatica. Seventeen of them have been found in Wytham Woods, Berkshire, where the main research was done. 2. There are three main types of life history found among the harvestmen. They may be found all the year round and have an overlap of the generations (e.g. Nemastoma lugubre); or they may be annuals which die before their eggs hatch. Of the annuals some hatch in the autumn and overwinter as immature forms (e.g. Platybunus triangularis and Megabunus diadema); others, including the majority of species, emerge in the spring and die off at the end of the autumn. 3. The numbers of harvestmen are never very large. In June, a maximum number of approximately 50 may be found in a square metre ground layer in deciduous woodland. The maximum biomass is found in July when there were more than 200 mg. of harvestmen per square metre in this habitat. 4. There are three main woodland species in Wytham Woods: Nemastoma lugubre found on the ground layer, Oligolophus tridens on the ground and field layer and Leiobunum rotundum on the tree trunks. 5. There is usually microhabitat separation in space and time, or both, of closely allied species of the same genus. 6. Harvestmen are most active at night. This activity is correlated with the decrease in light intensity, increase in relative humidity and decrease in temperature in the wood. 7. L. rotundum leaves the tree trunks at night and feeds on the field layer. It hunts on the under surface of Mercurialis perennis leaves. 8. There was found to be a strong correlation between the humidity preference of the species as tested in the laboratory and their stratification in oak woodland.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Wetlands;Grassland;Parks and Gardens;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1946	1947	All Year	Arachnids	Trogulus tricarinatus;Anelasmocephalus cambridgei;Nemastoma lugubre;Nemastoma chrysomelas;Homalenotus quadridentatus;Leiobunum rotundum;Leiobunum blackwalli;Nelima silvatica;Mitopus morio;Oligolophus tridens;Oligolophus agrestis;Oligolophus hanseni;Oligolophus meadei;Odiellus palpinalis;Odiellus spinosus;Lacinius ephippiatus;Phalangium opilio;Opilio parietinus;Opilio saxatilis;Platybunus triangularis;Megabunus diadema	Abundance	Yes	No
Varley_1974_WDA	Solo (Print)	Book	Varley, G.C., Gradwell, G.R., Hassell, M.P. (1973). Insect population ecology: an analytical approach, 212 pp.. 	1973	Varley, G.C., Gradwell, G.R., Hassell, M.P.	Insect population ecology: an analytical approach		Oxford	Blackwell Scientific Publications			632080507				212 pp.	Expressing propulation changes; density dependent processes affecting cultures of single species; composititions between species for a limited resouce; parasites and predatrs; climate and weather; life tables and their use in population chages of some forest insects; biological control.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1950	1956	Spring;Summer;Winter	Insects	Operophtera brumata	Community Composition;Other	No	No
Watt_1983	External	Miscellaneous	Watt, T.A., Kirby, K.J. (1983). Wytham Meads SSSI.  21 pp.. 	1983	Watt, T.A., Kirby, K.J.	Wytham Meads SSSI			Unpublished							21 pp.	A survey of ditches of Wytham Hill SSSI. 1. The survey has confirmed that the botanical interest of the fields is restricted to 5a and 13a. The justification for including other fields within the SSSI is their value as a "buffer zone" protecting the quality of the water flowing into the ditches. 2. The western boundary is illogical: ditch section la contains Hottonia and many of the other species found further east within the SSSI. The boundary cats straight across a field. We suggest that all of ditch 1 should be included. If Field 2a on the eastern edge is also to be included a detailed survey of this is required, but the information presently available suggests that the field is of only limited interest. 3. There is variation in the composition and structure of the plant communities found along different ditch sections which is related to the ditch size and its recent management history. 4. We believe that there is a case for cleaning out Ditch 4 to maintain the cyclical succession from open conditions to dense emergents which is a feature of ditch systems. The best way and time to do this would need to be discussed as well as whether some of the tributary ditches should be cleaned at the same time. 5. We cannot say whether management of the fields or ditches and particularly any recent changes in management have had a significant effect on the nature conservation value of the site. We did note minor damage to a thirty metre section of the north bank of Ditch 5 resulting from careless straw burning in field 4. This field has now been sown to grass but may be returned to cereals in a few years time	Wytham Estate	Wytham Hill	Grassland;Stream		51.77104859,-1.336246161	1983	1983	Summer	Vascular plants	Agtrostis stolonifera var. palustri;Alisma plantago-aquatica;Angelica sylvestris;Apium nodiflorum;Berula erecta;Callitriche;Caltha palustris;Carex riparia ;Eleocharis palustris;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum  fluviatile ;Equisetum palustre;Eupatorium cannabinun;Fillipendula ulmaria;Glyceria maxima;Hottonia palustris;Hypericum tetrapterum ;Iris pseudacorus;Juncus inflexus;Lychnis flos-cuculi;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia vulgaris ;Lythrum salicaria;Mentha aquatica;Myosotis scorpiodes;Myosoton aquaticum ;Myriophyllum sp.;Nuphar lutea;Nymphaea alba;Oenanthe fistulosa;Phalaris arundinacea;Phragmites communis;Ranunculus Batrachtum?tricophyllus;Ranunculus lingua;Rorippa nasturtium aquaticum;Rumex hydrolapathum;Sagittaria sagittifolia;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Schoenoplectus lacustris;Scrophularia aquatica;Scutellaria alerteulata;Sium latifolium;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum ;Stachys palustris;Typha latifolia;Valeriana afficinalis ;Veronica beccabunga;;Achillea ptarmica;Alliaria petiolata;Alopecurus pratensis ;Anthriscus rlvestris;Arctium sp.;Arrhenatherus elattus;Bellis perennis;Bromus mollis;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Cardamine pratensis;Carex flacca;Carex ?obtrubas;Carex pendula;Cerastium halosteoides;Cirsium arvense;Cirsium vulgare;Crataegus monogyna;Dactylis glomerata;Deschampsia cespitosa;Festuca arundinacea ;Festuca rubra;Fraxinus excelsior;Galium aparine;Galium ?uliginosum;Glechoma hederaces;Holcus lanatus;Humulus lupulus;Juncus effusus;Lamium album;Lysimachia nummularia;Matricaria matricarioides;Plantago major;Poa annua;Poa trivialis ;Polygonum convoluta;Potentilla anserina;Potentilla reptans;Primula veris;Prunus spinosa;Ranunculus acris;Ranunculus ficaria;Ranunculus repens;Ribes sp.;Rosa sp.;Rubus fruticosus ;Rumex acetosa;Rumes crispus;Senecio jacobaea;Senecio squalidus;Sonchus ? arvensis;Stachys sylvatica;Stellaria graminea;Symphytum officinale;Taraxacum officinale;Thalictrum flavum;Thelycrania sanguinea;Trifolium pratense;Trifolium repens;Urtica dioica;Vicia cracca	Community Composition	No	No
Watts_1970_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Watts, C.H.S. (1970). Long distance movement of Bank voles and Wood mice. Journal of Zoology, 161(2) 247-256. 10.1111/j.1469-7998.1970.tb02039.x	1970	Watts, C.H.S.	Long distance movement of Bank voles and Wood mice	Journal of Zoology				10.1111/j.1469-7998.1970.tb02039.x			161	2	247-256	Between November 1963 and October 1965 the long distance movements of Bank voles and Wood mice within an almost isolated 26 ha deciduous woodlot were studied by live trapping at approximately monthly intervals. Dispersal was most marked in juvenile Bank voles where most of the males and about half the females under 13 g, when released and later recaptured, had dispersed. Dispersal of juvenile Wood mice did not occur after September, before which time the evidence was sparse and inconclusive. It was estimated that about 6% of adult maleand 2% of adult female Bank voles dispersed. Little dispersal of adult Wood mice took place. The term `transient' is discussed. True transients in the ‚Äúonce‚Äêcaught' category are thought to be few. There was no evidence that the trappable population of either species included a significant number of non‚Äêresident individuals.	Wytham Estate	Marley Plantation/Marley Wood	Woodland		51.76190392,-1.3003382	1963	1965	All Year	Mammals	Clethrionomys glareolus	Population Density	Yes	No
Whittaker_1969_WDA	Solo (Print)	Journal Article	Whittaker, J.B. (1969). Quantitative and habitat studies of the frog-hoppers and leaf-hoppers (Homoptera, Auchenorhyncha) of Wytham Woods, Berkshire. The Entomologist's monthly magazine, 105(27-37. 	1969	Whittaker, J.B.	Quantitative and habitat studies of the frog-hoppers and leaf-hoppers (Homoptera, Auchenorhyncha) of Wytham Woods, Berkshire	The Entomologist'S Monthly Magazine							105		27-37		Wytham Estate	Upper Seeds	Grassland		51.77012495,-1.332787491	1964	1965	Summer	Insects	Stenocranus minutus;Laodelphax elegantulus;Neophilaenus lineatus ;Philaenus spumarius;Cicaduta persimilis;Arthaldeus pascuellus;Aphrodes albifrons;Dikraneura mollicula ;Mocydia crocea;Megophthalmus scanicus;Erythroneura parvula;Deltocephalus coronifer ;Aphrophora alni;Javesella pellucida;Evacanthus interruptus;Zygina scutellaris ;Aphrodes bicinctus;Agallia consobrina;Rhopalopyx adumbrata;Dicranotropis hamata;Macropsis ?fuscula ;Doratura stylata;Adarrus multinotatus;Diplocolenus abdominalis ;Allygidius commutatus;Macustus grisescens;Eupteryx notata;Ribautiana tenerrima;Evacanthus acuminatus	Abundance	No	No
Whittaker_1971_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Whittaker, J.B. (1971). Population changes in Neophilaenus lineatus (L.)(Homoptera: Cercopidae) in different parts of its range. Journal of Animal Ecology, 425-443. 10.2307/3253	1971	Whittaker, J.B.	Population changes in Neophilaenus lineatus (L.)(Homoptera: Cercopidae) in different parts of its range	Journal of Animal Ecology				10.2307/3253					425-443	(1) Changes in two populations of Neophilaenus lineatus (L.) near to the edge of their range in the Pennine Hills (Moor House) are compared with those in a population in lowland, southern England (Upper Seeds, Wytham Woods). The upland populations have been studied for 9 years and the lowland one for 6. (2) The Upper Seeds population was more stable (coefficient of variation 47.5) than the Moor House ones (coefficient of variation 91.5). (3) The techniques of Morris (1963) and Varley & Gradwell (1960) were used to detect regulatory processes in the populations. (4) The nymphal mortality at Moor House was not detectably density-dependent. In the Upper Seeds population it was inversely density-dependent. (5) The adult mortality at Moor House was not detectably density-dependent. At Upper Seeds it was directly density-dependent. Verrallia aucta, a dipteran parasitoid, increased this density-dependence. (6) At Moor House, the generation mortality was not detectably density-dependent. At Upper Seeds, the directly density-dependent mortality of the adults more than compensated for the inverse density-dependent mortality of the nymphs so that the generation mortality was density-dependent. (7) Major changes from one generation to the next were caused by the weather conditions at the end of the season. At Moor House, these could prevent the complete laying of one batch of eggs; at Upper Seeds they determined whether one, two or three batches were laid. (8) The two Moor House populations showed parallel changes in every year from 1961 to 1967. In 1967 the density of one of them was experimentally reduced. In the subsequent 2 years the two populations have remained significantly different in density. The low density population has not yet adjusted to the effects of being disturbed. (9) The fringe population at Moor House was poorly regulated. Local extinctions of N. lineatus occur here. The population of N. lineatus at Upper Seeds is well within the range of the species and appears to be well regulated.	Wytham Estate	Upper Seeds	Grassland		51.77012495,-1.332787491	1964	1969	Not Reported	Insects	Neophilaenus lineatus	Population Density	Yes	No
Williams_1991_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Williams, T. (1991). Ubiquitous occurrence of Simulium posticatum (Diptera) in rivers around Oxford. Entomologist, 110(1) 33-36. 	1991	Williams, T.	Ubiquitous occurrence of Simulium posticatum (Diptera) in rivers around Oxford	Entomologist							110	1	33-36	The distribution of Simulium posticatum larvae in 10 rivers around Oxford was investigated in April, 1990. Samples of aquatic vegetation were taken and all blackfly stages present were identified. S. posticatum was detected at 18 of the 21 sites sampled and was usually dominant over all other blackfly species during this springtime period.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Stream		51.782138 ,-1.3099472	1990	1990	Spring	Insects	Simulium posticatum (	Abundance	No	No
Woodcock_2005_WDA	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Woodcock, B.A., Mann, D.J., Mirieless, C., McGavin, G.C., McDonald, A.W. (2005). Re-creation of a lowland flood-plain meadow: management implications for invertebrate communities. Journal of Insect Conservation, 9(3) 207-218. 10.1007/s10841-005-6608-x	2005	Woodcock, B.A., Mann, D.J., Mirieless, C., McGavin, G.C., McDonald, A.W.	Re-creation of a lowland flood-plain meadow: management implications for invertebrate communities	Journal of Insect Conservation				10.1007/s10841-005-6608-x			9	3	207-218	Intensification of framing practices after the Second World War has led to wide scale loss of semi-natural grasslands throughout the UK. Flood-plain meadows (NVC MG4 Alopecurus pratensis-Sanguisorba officinalis grassland) suffered under these changes in agricultural management, and now cover an area of <1500 ha in England and Wales. In 1985, an experiment was initiated at Somerford Mead, Oxford, with the target of re-creating MG4 grassland. The grassland was established with a sown seed mixture harvested from local MG4 grassland. A replicated block experiment was set up to look at the effects of sheep, cattle and no grazing on the establishment of the target floral community. In 2002, the effects of these management regimes on beetle communities were investigated. Grazing regime was seen to be the primary determinant of abundance, species richness and species assemblage of the beetle population. Vegetation structure was also found to influence beetle diversity. The percentage cover of the legume Trifolium repens had important effects on beetle community assemblage, whilst Trifolium pratense was strongly correlated with the abundance of three common phytophagous beetles. This study provides a preliminary investigation into the responses of beetle communities to management intended for the re-creation of the plant communities of this threatened grassland habitat.	Wytham Estate	Somerford Mead	Pasture	1	51.78461503,-1.335164948	2002	2002	Summer	Insects	Coleoptera	Abundance;Diversity	No	No
Woodroffe_1995_WDAa	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Woodroffe, R., Macdonald, D.W., Silva, J. (1995). Dispersal and philopatry in the European badger, Meles meles. Journal of Zoology, 237(2) 227-239. 10.1111/j.1469-7998.1995.tb02760.x	1995	Woodroffe, R., Macdonald, D.W., Silva, J.	Dispersal and philopatry in the European badger, Meles meles	Journal of Zoology				10.1111/j.1469-7998.1995.tb02760.x			237	2	227-239	In comparison with other carnivores, European badgers, Meles meles L., show an unusually high degree of natal philopatry. In this paper, we present data on temporary and permanent movements between groups, in both male and female badgers, in a moderately high density population. A relatively small proportion of males dispersed, alone, to neighbouring territories. Dispersing males were larger than those remaining in their natal groups, and following dispersal they had higher testosterone titres and maintained testicular activity for a greater part of the year. Circumstantial evidence suggests that immigrants were the principal breeding males in their new territories. Dispersal was slightly more common in females, which dispersed away from large groups, where their chances of breeding were relatively low. Females dispersed in coalitions of 2-3, over longer distances, to territories occupied by single females. Resident females disappeared following the arrival of the immigrants, suggesting that territory `takeovers' may have occurred. Members of both sexes also made temporary `visits' to neighbouring territories, probably to obtain extra‚Äêgroup matings. Comparison with other badger populations suggests that the frequency of male dispersal declines at high population densities. In contrast, there is no effect of density on female dispersal, which occurs only rarely in some other populations. We suggest that the pattern of female/female competition is too complex to be explained solely in terms of variation in population density.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Farmland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1987	1992	Autumn;Spring;Summer;Winter	Mammals	Meles meles	Population Density	No	No
Estates_2015a	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2015). Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project. 	2015	University of Oxford Estates Services	Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project											An ecology desk study was carried out by contacting Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre to obtain information on designated sites and records of and protected and notable species up to 1 km from the Site. A check was also made for water bodies within 0.5 km of the Site using the MAGIC website, OS mapping and publicly available aerial imagery. 1.4 An extended Phase 1 habitat survey of the Site was carried out on 9 January 2015. The potential of the Site to support protected or otherwise notable species was also assessed by the surveyor during the survey. The survey was carried out outside the optimal time of year for Phase 1 habitat survey, but given the habitats present, this constraint is not considered to be significant in assessing the ecological value of the Site. There are no statutory wildlife sites within the Site, which comprises amenity grassland (i.e. lawns), hardstanding (i.e. paved pedestrian paths), small areas of introduced shrub, and the existing building.	Begbroke Science Park	Begbroke Science Park	Parks and Gardens		51.817858,-1.306539	2014	2015	Summer;Winter	Amphibians		Other	No	No
Estates_2015a	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2015). Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project. 	2015	University of Oxford Estates Services	Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project											An ecology desk study was carried out by contacting Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre to obtain information on designated sites and records of and protected and notable species up to 1 km from the Site. A check was also made for water bodies within 0.5 km of the Site using the MAGIC website, OS mapping and publicly available aerial imagery. 1.4 An extended Phase 1 habitat survey of the Site was carried out on 9 January 2015. The potential of the Site to support protected or otherwise notable species was also assessed by the surveyor during the survey. The survey was carried out outside the optimal time of year for Phase 1 habitat survey, but given the habitats present, this constraint is not considered to be significant in assessing the ecological value of the Site. There are no statutory wildlife sites within the Site, which comprises amenity grassland (i.e. lawns), hardstanding (i.e. paved pedestrian paths), small areas of introduced shrub, and the existing building.	Begbroke Science Park	Begbroke Science Park	Parks and Gardens		51.817858,-1.306539	2014	2015	Summer;Winter	Birds		Other	No	No
Estates_2015a	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2015). Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project. 	2015	University of Oxford Estates Services	Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project											An ecology desk study was carried out by contacting Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre to obtain information on designated sites and records of and protected and notable species up to 1 km from the Site. A check was also made for water bodies within 0.5 km of the Site using the MAGIC website, OS mapping and publicly available aerial imagery. 1.4 An extended Phase 1 habitat survey of the Site was carried out on 9 January 2015. The potential of the Site to support protected or otherwise notable species was also assessed by the surveyor during the survey. The survey was carried out outside the optimal time of year for Phase 1 habitat survey, but given the habitats present, this constraint is not considered to be significant in assessing the ecological value of the Site. There are no statutory wildlife sites within the Site, which comprises amenity grassland (i.e. lawns), hardstanding (i.e. paved pedestrian paths), small areas of introduced shrub, and the existing building.	Begbroke Science Park	Begbroke Science Park	Parks and Gardens		51.817858,-1.306539	2014	2015	Summer;Winter	Insects		Other	No	No
Estates_2015a	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2015). Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project. 	2015	University of Oxford Estates Services	Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project											An ecology desk study was carried out by contacting Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre to obtain information on designated sites and records of and protected and notable species up to 1 km from the Site. A check was also made for water bodies within 0.5 km of the Site using the MAGIC website, OS mapping and publicly available aerial imagery. 1.4 An extended Phase 1 habitat survey of the Site was carried out on 9 January 2015. The potential of the Site to support protected or otherwise notable species was also assessed by the surveyor during the survey. The survey was carried out outside the optimal time of year for Phase 1 habitat survey, but given the habitats present, this constraint is not considered to be significant in assessing the ecological value of the Site. There are no statutory wildlife sites within the Site, which comprises amenity grassland (i.e. lawns), hardstanding (i.e. paved pedestrian paths), small areas of introduced shrub, and the existing building.	Begbroke Science Park	Begbroke Science Park	Parks and Gardens		51.817858,-1.306539	2014	2015	Summer;Winter	Mammals		Other	No	No
Estates_2015a	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2015). Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project. 	2015	University of Oxford Estates Services	Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project											An ecology desk study was carried out by contacting Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre to obtain information on designated sites and records of and protected and notable species up to 1 km from the Site. A check was also made for water bodies within 0.5 km of the Site using the MAGIC website, OS mapping and publicly available aerial imagery. 1.4 An extended Phase 1 habitat survey of the Site was carried out on 9 January 2015. The potential of the Site to support protected or otherwise notable species was also assessed by the surveyor during the survey. The survey was carried out outside the optimal time of year for Phase 1 habitat survey, but given the habitats present, this constraint is not considered to be significant in assessing the ecological value of the Site. There are no statutory wildlife sites within the Site, which comprises amenity grassland (i.e. lawns), hardstanding (i.e. paved pedestrian paths), small areas of introduced shrub, and the existing building.	Begbroke Science Park	Begbroke Science Park	Parks and Gardens		51.817858,-1.306539	2014	2015	Summer;Winter	Reptiles		Other	No	No
Estates_2015a	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2015). Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project. 	2015	University of Oxford Estates Services	Ecological Appraisal Report, Begbroke Science Park Accelerator Project											An ecology desk study was carried out by contacting Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre to obtain information on designated sites and records of and protected and notable species up to 1 km from the Site. A check was also made for water bodies within 0.5 km of the Site using the MAGIC website, OS mapping and publicly available aerial imagery. 1.4 An extended Phase 1 habitat survey of the Site was carried out on 9 January 2015. The potential of the Site to support protected or otherwise notable species was also assessed by the surveyor during the survey. The survey was carried out outside the optimal time of year for Phase 1 habitat survey, but given the habitats present, this constraint is not considered to be significant in assessing the ecological value of the Site. There are no statutory wildlife sites within the Site, which comprises amenity grassland (i.e. lawns), hardstanding (i.e. paved pedestrian paths), small areas of introduced shrub, and the existing building.	Begbroke Science Park	Begbroke Science Park	Parks and Gardens		51.817858,-1.306539	2014	2015	Summer;Winter	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Estates_2017	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2017). Project 622, University of Oxford – Ecology Report and BREEAM Assessment. 	2017	University of Oxford Estates Services	Project 622, University of Oxford – Ecology Report and BREEAM Assessment.											A desk-based information search recommended to inform a PEA was restricted to a search for nearby statutory designated wildlife sites and Ancient Woodland using the online Magic Map application and a search for non-statutory wildlife sites using the ‘Living List’ of Local Wildlife Sites available on the Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre (TVERC) website . An Extended Phase 1 Habitat Survey was undertaken for the Site on 4 April 2017. The methodology adopted followed the standard JNCC approach to Phase 1 Habitat Survey by which all habitats present within the site were classified and mapped according to standard categories. Target notes were used to describe areas of both typical and unique botanical character. Habitat patches were mapped as polygon features, and if sufficient space on the map linear features (such as walls and fences) as lines where this provided added value. Point features were recorded where there were notable isolated trees or scrub. Plant species abundance was noted using the DAFOR4 system.	John Radcliffe Hospital	John Radcliffe Hospital	Grassland;Parks and Gardens		51.764672,-1.220363	2017	2017	Spring	Vascular plants	Epilobium hirsutum;Buddleja davidii;Anisantha sterilis;Lolium perenne;Plantago lanceolata;Achillea millefolium; Prunus sp,;Betula pendula;Rosa rugosa;Ribes sanguineum	Other	No	No
Estates_2018	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2018). Osney Power Station Updated Bat and Ecological Assessment .  	2018	University of Oxford Estates Services	Osney Power Station Updated Bat and Ecological Assessment 											Information relating to designated sites, sites where European Protected Species (EPS) Licences have been granted between 2009 and 2015 and historic records of protected species within 2 km of the proposed development site at Osney were obtained from Magic (www.magic.gov.uk) and other freely available information on the internet, such as planning portals. A Phase 1 Habitat Survey was carried out to survey main habitat types on the site. Due to the presence of suitable roosting features as well as evidence of previous use by bats, bat activity surveys were completed in June, July and August 2016 	Osney	Osney			51.74683953,-1.272317911	2016	2016	Summer	Birds	Pipistrellus pygmaeus;Pipistrellus pipistrellus;Columba livia domestica;(Motacilla cinerea	Other	No	No
Estates_2018	Oxford University (Other)	Report	University of Oxford Estates Services (2018). Osney Power Station Updated Bat and Ecological Assessment .  	2018	University of Oxford Estates Services	Osney Power Station Updated Bat and Ecological Assessment 											Information relating to designated sites, sites where European Protected Species (EPS) Licences have been granted between 2009 and 2015 and historic records of protected species within 2 km of the proposed development site at Osney were obtained from Magic (www.magic.gov.uk) and other freely available information on the internet, such as planning portals. A Phase 1 Habitat Survey was carried out to survey main habitat types on the site. Due to the presence of suitable roosting features as well as evidence of previous use by bats, bat activity surveys were completed in June, July and August 2016 	Osney	Osney			51.74683953,-1.272317911	2016	2016	Summer	Mammals	Pipistrellus pygmaeus;Pipistrellus pipistrellus;Columba livia domestica;(Motacilla cinerea	Other	No	No
Feber_1993	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Feber, R. (1993). The ecology and conservation of butterflies on lowland arable farmland. Thesis, University of Oxford, 125 pp.. 	1993	Feber, R.	The ecology and conservation of butterflies on lowland arable farmland		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						125 pp.		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Farmland;Grassland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1987	1992	Summer	Insects	Maniola jurtina;Pyronia rithonus;Coenonympha pamphilus;Melanargia galathea;Aglais urticae;Polyommatus icarus;Pieris napae;Ochlodes venata;Pieris brassicae;Pieris rapae;Vanessa atalanta	Richness	Yes	No
Anon_multiple_dates	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Multiple (multiple). Wytham Woods publications archive. 	multiple	Multiple	Wytham Woods publications archive											A collection of 11 boxes containing publications relating to Wytham Woods from 1945 onwards. Individual articles of relevance to the evidence base are recorded separately.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Grassland;Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1945	Not Reported	All Year	Birds		Other	Yes	No
Anon_multiple_dates	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Multiple (multiple). Wytham Woods publications archive. 	multiple	Multiple	Wytham Woods publications archive											A collection of 11 boxes containing publications relating to Wytham Woods from 1945 onwards. Individual articles of relevance to the evidence base are recorded separately.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Grassland;Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1945	Not Reported	All Year	Insects		Other	Yes	No
Anon_multiple_dates	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Multiple (multiple). Wytham Woods publications archive. 	multiple	Multiple	Wytham Woods publications archive											A collection of 11 boxes containing publications relating to Wytham Woods from 1945 onwards. Individual articles of relevance to the evidence base are recorded separately.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Grassland;Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1945	Not Reported	All Year	Mammals		Other	Yes	No
Anon_multiple_dates	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Multiple (multiple). Wytham Woods publications archive. 	multiple	Multiple	Wytham Woods publications archive											A collection of 11 boxes containing publications relating to Wytham Woods from 1945 onwards. Individual articles of relevance to the evidence base are recorded separately.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Estate	Farmland;Grassland;Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1945	Not Reported	All Year	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Kirby_1999	Solo (Print)	Report	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C. (1999). Changes in the ground flora in Wytham Woods, southern England, 1974-1991, and their implications for nature conservation. English Nature research reports, 320. 33 pp.. 	1999	Kirby, K.J., Thomas, R.C.	Changes in the ground flora in Wytham Woods, southern England, 1974-1991, and their implications for nature conservation	English Nature Report	Peterborough	English Nature					320		33 pp.	The ground flora (vascular plants less the 2 m high, excluding trees and shrubs) was recorded in 1974 and 1991 from 163 permanent 10 x 10 m plots arranged on a systematic grid across Wytham Woods, near Oxford (UK). The Woods cover about 320 ha, are predominantly deciduous, but of varying ages and management types. The total number of species found (173, 167 respectively), the mean richness per plot (16.7, 17.2) and the breakdown of the species list between different species types (ancient woodland indicators, other woodland species, non-woodland species) showed no significant differences between 1974 and 1991, but mean ground cover declined from 80% to 64%. Eight species were common across the whole wood in both years and showed little difference in frequency between areas of different histories and management (Dryopteris filix-mas. Galium aparine, Geum urbanum, Rubus fruticosus, Glechoma hederacea, Hyacinthoides non-scripta, Mercurialis perennis, Urtica dioica), Ancient woodland indicators as a group were more common in ancient stands, but some ancient woodland indicators had spread widely in the recent woodland.  Some species increased in frequency across all types of woodland including Arum maculatum, Brachypodium sylvaticum. Deschampsia cespitosa and Poa trivialis; while others such as Ajuga reptans, Angelica sylvestris and Circaea lutetiana declined. Mean cover of Rubus fruticosus per plot declined from 35% to 6% and of Mercurialis perennis from 32 to 24%. Changes in the vegetation were greater in the plantations which showed more species losses than semi-natural stands.. Significant differences were found between groups of species in terms of their Ellenberg indicator scores particularly for light, nitrogen and moisture, and in their strategy types (sensu Grime 1979). Ancient woodland indicators had the lowest light scores (most shade-tolerant) and tended to have more of a bias towards stress- tolerance in strategy terms. The indicator scores and strategy types were used to interpret the changes observed in the vegetation.  The main causes of change were the changing conditions associated with stand growth, particular increased shade in the plantations, and an increase in browsing/grazing by deer. No evidence could be found for an effect of changing soil nitrogen or pH on the vegetation despite known changes in the soil values for these parameters. Changes in the ground flora as well as the woody layers, and in managed as well as unmanaged stands should be monitored, if conservation objectives are to be met.; 	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1991	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Galium aparine; Geum urbanum; Rubus fruticosus; Glechoma hederacea; Hyacinthoides non-scripta; Mercurialis perennis; Urtica dioica;Arum maculatum; Brachypodium sylvaticum. Deschampsia cespitosa; Poa trivialis;Ajuga reptans; Angelica sylvestris; Circaea lutetiana;Rubus fruticosus; Mercurialis perennis	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Kirby_1996	Solo (Print)	Report	Kirby, K.J., Bell, J., Thomas, R.C. (1996). Changes in abundance of six ground flora species in Wytham Woods(1974-1991). English Nature research reports, 175. 31 pp.. 	1996	Kirby, K.J., Bell, J., Thomas, R.C.	Changes in abundance of six ground flora species in Wytham Woods(1974-1991)	English Nature Report	Peterborough	English Nature					175		31 pp.	Data from 163 permanent 10 x 10m plots established in Wytham Woods were used to look for changes in abundance between 1974 and 1991 of six ground flora species: Chamerion angustifolium, Hyacinthoides non-scriptus, Mercurialis perennis, Pteridium aquilinum, Rubus fruticosus and Urtica dioica. Chamerion angustifolium had declined in both occurrence and mean cover across the whole wood. Throughout most of this period the wood has been relatively undisturbed so sites for this species of disturbed ground have become less. Rubus fruticosus showed a major decline in cover, with little change in frequency, believed to be caused by increased deer browsing. Mercurialis perennis remained frequent but there was a decrease in the number of plots where it formed dense carpets. This may also be a grazing effect. Pteridium aquilinum declined mainly in plots where the canopy cover had increased, an effect of increased shade. Urtica dioica and Hyacinthoides showed no significant changes in cover.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1991	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Chamerion angustifolium;Hyacinthoides non-scriptus;Mercurialis perennis;Pteridium aquilinum;Rubus fruticosus;Urtica dioica	Abundance	Yes	No
Gibson_1988	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). Evaluation of vascular flora and rare insects at Wytham. Implications for management. Report to the Wytham Management Committee, January 1988. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	Evaluation of vascular flora and rare insects at Wytham. Implications for management. Report to the Wytham Management Committee			Unpublished						January		Lists of Coleoptera (182 species), Lepidoptera (82 species), recorded as vulnerable, rare, or notable, and vascular flora (12 species	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	Not Reported	1987	Not Reported	Insects		Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported
Gibson_1988	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Gibson, C.W.D. (1988). Evaluation of vascular flora and rare insects at Wytham. Implications for management. Report to the Wytham Management Committee, January 1988. 	1988	Gibson, C.W.D.	Evaluation of vascular flora and rare insects at Wytham. Implications for management. Report to the Wytham Management Committee			Unpublished						January		Lists of Coleoptera (182 species), Lepidoptera (82 species), recorded as vulnerable, rare, or notable, and vascular flora (12 species	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Grassland;Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	Not Reported	1987	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported
Ward_1999	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Ward, R. (1999). Butterflies recorded 1999. 	1999	Ward, R.	Butterflies recorded 1999			Ward, R.								Butterflies listed in seceral areas of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire, including Wytham Wood and Nuneham Courtney	Harcourt Arboretum	Wytham Estate;Harcourt Arboretum	Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1999	1999	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	No	No
Ward_1999	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Ward, R. (1999). Butterflies recorded 1999. 	1999	Ward, R.	Butterflies recorded 1999			Ward, R.								Butterflies listed in seceral areas of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire, including Wytham Wood and Nuneham Courtney	Harcourt Arboretum	Wytham Estate;Harcourt Arboretum	Woodland		51.684555,-1.198519	1999	1999	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	No	No
Ward_1998	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Ward, R. (1999). Butterflies recorded 1998. 	1999	Ward, R.	Butterflies recorded 1998			Ward, R								Butterflies listed in seceral areas of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire, including Wytham Wood and Nuneham Courtney	Harcourt Arboretum	Wytham Estate;Harcourt Arboretum	Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1998	1998	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	No	No
Ward_1998	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Ward, R. (1999). Butterflies recorded 1998. 	1999	Ward, R.	Butterflies recorded 1998			Ward, R								Butterflies listed in seceral areas of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire, including Wytham Wood and Nuneham Courtney	Harcourt Arboretum	Wytham Estate;Harcourt Arboretum	Woodland		51.684555,-1.198519	1998	1998	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	No	No
Asher_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Ward, R. (1997). The butterflies of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire & Oxfordshire. 	1997	Ward, R.	The butterflies of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire & Oxfordshire			Ward, R								Butterflies listed in seceral areas of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire, including Wytham Wood and Nuneham Courtney	Harcourt Arboretum	Wytham Estate;Harcourt Arboretum	Woodland		51.767046,-1.328857	1999	1999	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	No	No
Asher_1997	Oxford University (Other)	Miscellaneous	Ward, R. (1997). The butterflies of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire & Oxfordshire. 	1997	Ward, R.	The butterflies of Berkshire, Buckinghamshire & Oxfordshire			Ward, R								Butterflies listed in seceral areas of Oxfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Berkshire, including Wytham Wood and Nuneham Courtney	Harcourt Arboretum	Wytham Estate;Harcourt Arboretum	Woodland		51.684555,-1.198519	1999	1999	Not Reported	Insects	Lepidoptera	Other	No	No
NERC_1977	Oxford University (Other)	Dataset	NERC (1977). Long-term woodland surveillance project, Oxford 1973-1975. Computer-stored summary [printout], 	1977	NERC	Long-term woodland surveillance project, Oxford 1973-1975	Computer-Stored Summary [Printout]		Unpublished								Inventory data from a project aimed to devise, install and eventually test a system of long-term inventory of mixed woodland, using permanently but inconspicuously marked plots and computer-processed observations.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	1974	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Dawkins_1978b	Oxford University (Other)	Dataset	Dawkins, H.C., Field, D.R.B. (1978). A long term surveillance system for British woodland vegetation [data]. 	1978	Dawkins, H.C., Field, D.R.B.	A long term surveillance system for British woodland vegetation [data]											Inventory data from a project aimed to devise, install and eventually test a system of long-term inventory of mixed woodland, using permanently but inconspicuously marked plots and computer-processed observations.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1978	1978	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	Yes	No
Hanski_1979	Solo (Print)	Thesis	Hanski, I. (1979). The community of coprophagous beetles. Thesis, University of Oxford, 238 pp.. 	1979	Hanski, I.	The community of coprophagous beetles		Oxford	University of Oxford	Doctorate						238 pp.		Wytham Estate	University Farm	Pasture		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1977	1977	All Year	Insects	Oxyomus sylvestris ;Aphodius ater ;Aphodius  borealis ;Aphodius contaminates ;Aphodius  equestris ;Aphodius  fimetarius ;Aphodius  fossor ;Aphodius  obliterates ;Aphodius  prodromus ;Aphodius  pusillus;Aphodius  rufescens  ;Aphodius  rufipes ;Aphodius  sphacelatus ;Sphaeridium lunatum ;Cercyon obsoletus ;Cercyon impresses ;Cercyon haemorrhoidalis ;Cercyon melanocephalus ;Cercyon atricapillus ;Cercyon pygmaeus ;Cercyon terminates ;Cercyon quisquilius ;Cercyon unipunctatus ;Cercyon lateralis ;Cryptopleurum minutum ;Megasternum boletophagum ;Anacaena globules	Abundance	No	No
Hanski_1980b	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Hanski, I. (1980). Spatial Variation in the Timing of the Seasonal Occurrence in Coprophagous Beetles. OIKOS, 34(3) 311-321. https://doi.org/10.2307/3544290	1980	Hanski, I.	Spatial Variation in the Timing of the Seasonal Occurrence in Coprophagous Beetles	Oikos				https://doi.org/10.2307/3544290			34	3	311-321	easonal changes in the numbers of individuals in two groups of dung-inhabiting beetles, Aphodius (Scarabaeidae) and Hydrophilidae, are shown to vary substantially between similar pastures situated ca. 1.5 km apart. This is suggested to be related to seasonally constant quantity and quality of their habitat and resources (droppings); in the absence of this constraint, other factors, like chance, history, and interspecific interactions, may become decisive determinants of the spatio-temporal structure of populations. The seasonal mean overlap (percentage similarity) with the most similar species in the same field, and the mean intraspecific between-field overlap, were both ca. 50%, which shows the importance of examining spatial variation in studies of niche relations. Some species of Aphodius showed bimodal seasonal distribution in numbers, which is interpreted to reflect intraspecific variation in the stage of hibernation. The relation between spatial variance in numbers and in the timing of the seasonal occurrence is discussed. It is concluded that, due to spatial variation in the species composition, intraspecific diversity in the seasonal occurrence of different species may promote rather than displace interspecific diversity.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Pasture		51.78671864,-1.30919361	1977	1977	Autumn;Spring;Summer;Winter	Insects	Aphodius;Hydrophilidae	Abundance	No	No
Kirby_2022b	Oxford University (Other)	Report	Kirby, K.J. (2022). Ground flora dynamics in Wytham Woods, 1974-2018, based on the Dawkins Plots. 	2022	Kirby, K.J.	Ground flora dynamics in Wytham Woods, 1974-2018, based on the Dawkins Plots			Unpublished								This report summarises ground vegetation results from five recordings (1974,1991, 1999, 2012 and 2018) of 164 permanent 10x10 m plots in Wytham Woods.  Overall mean ground flora cover per plot across the whole of the Woods went down from about 80% in 1974 to 64% in 1991, before increasing to 78% in 2018. Both substantial increases and decreases occurred at the plot level over the 45-year period, but with no overall pattern to these changes across the Woods. Canopy cover is the major limiting factor on ground vegetation cover; but tree species effects are important, with light-canopied species such as ash Fraxinus excelsior allowing more ground vegetation cover to develop.   A total of 235 species were found across all recordings, which is not outstandingly rich for the size of the Woods (c.400 ha) but includes a good representation of woodland species typical of lowland woods.  The flora is dominated by a small number of species notably Rubus fruticosus, Poa trivialis, Mercurialis perennis and Brachypodium sylvaticum; the top twelve species contributed 47% of species records across all five recordings.   The vegetation can be broadly grouped into that of the older woodland of semi-natural origin, the younger plantation stands and the more open rides and glades. The species recorded were grouped into woodland specialists (40 species, that tend to be stress tolerators, often high-shade species); the more competitive, woodland generalists (105 species) that tend to be the commonest plants in the woods; and 90 non-woodland species associated with the more open plots which have a greater ruderal element and more species with high light requirements. The contribution of non-woodland species is greatest in the Ride and Glade plots; the contribution of woodland specialists increases the longer an area has been wooded while that of non-woodland species declines.    Species richness per plot showed little variation over the 45 yrs, except for a low value in 2018 (16.7 species per plot in 1974, 17.3 in 1991, 15.5 in 1999, 16.1 in 2012, 13.5 in 2018).  There was similar pattern to the number of species recorded in total across the full set of plots (182 in 1974, 171 in 1991, 147 in 1999, 158 in 2012, 141 in 2018).  Plot species richness was negatively correlated with canopy cover over the whole period, but small differences in canopy cover (<25%) had relatively little effect on plot richness. Across all recordings, species richness in the more open Ride and Glade areas (mean 24-30 species per plot) was about 1.5-2.0 times the number found in the more closed woodland plots.  Species richness at the plot level often showed large fluctuations from one recording to the next, with both increases and decreases being common for a plot. In any one plot, only a few species were recorded across all five recordings, with many species turning up only once or twice.  The similarity (Sorensen’s Index) between recordings from the same plot steadily declined with increasing time interval between recordings. The similarity between plots from the same recording time (homogeneity) was highest in the 1990s, but then declined again. Homogeneity went both up and down in different parts of the Woods between each recording.  A major reason for increasing homogeneity was that the 20th century plantation plots became more similar to the older woodland and less like the Ride and Glade plots.   Trends seen across the Woods in the older stands of semi-natural origin appear to be partly an effect of increased canopy cover – i.e. they were becoming more shady. Ellenberg Indicator Values for light (EIV-L) per plot were negatively correlated with canopy cover and there was a general decline in Ellenberg Light Score per plot over the 45-yr period. The Competitor element of the flora declined while the Stress-tolerator element went up. Soil acidification may have contributed to some floral changes between 1974 and 1991; there were small decreases in Ellenberg Indicator Reaction (pH) scores. No thermophilisation of the ground flora was detected in terms of shifts in the mean January or mean July temperatures of the species or plot scores; there was a slight trend towards species associated with higher annual rainfall, but this may be an artefact through the favouring of more shady floras. There was no overall change in Ellenberg Indicator Values for Nitrogen. There was an increase for the 20th Century plantation group of plots, but other plots often showed decreases. Some high EIV-N species such as Alliaria petiolata are however increasing. There was also a weak negative relationship between an increase in EIV-N and a decline in species richness (but R2 less than 10%)   Most species were present in plots with only low cover-abundance, whether measured by frequency in 13 sub-quadrats (0.1 m2 each) recorded across the main plot or by overall cover estimated by eye. A small number of species dominate the high frequency/high cover values which tend also to be the species with high overall plot occurrences such as Rubus fruticosus or Mercurialis perennis. Changes in within plot cover-abundance tend to be similar to changes in overall frequency of occurrence (no of plots in which a species was present), e.g. declining Chamerion angustifolium, increasing Brachypodium sylvaticum and Hedera helix. For a few species the trends were different: bramble Rubus fruticosus showed large within-plot declines in cover between 1974 and 1999 but little overall change in number of plots in which it occurred. The biggest single change in the vegetation over the 45 years was the decline in cover of bramble and rise in Brachypodium sylvaticum between 1974 and 1999, and the reversal of this trend between 1999-2018. There was a general trend for species that had been increasing up to 1999 to then decrease in the period from 1999-2018. Biomass per plot, estimated using the Phytocalc approach, halved between 1974 and 1991 but has shown a slight upward trend since. The decline (and recovery) in biomass was driven largely by the change in the cover of bramble. The major driver of change apart from light appears to be the major increase in deer pressure between 1974 and 1999; subsequent deer management has allowed a partial recovery. Changes in the ground flora at Wytham Woods tend to be site-specific although they show some similarities to changes seen across wider parts of the country. Further changes in the ground flora are expected as the canopy cover changes in response to Ash Dieback.   	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1974	2018	Summer	Vascular plants	Angelica sylvestris;Arum maculatum;Brachypodium sylvaticum;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex sylvatica;Circaea lutetiana;Cirsium palustre;Clematis vitalba;Deschampsia cespitosa;Dryopteris dilatata;Dryopteris filix-mas;Hyacinthoides non-scripta;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Lamiastrum galeobdolon;Galium aparine;Geum urbanum;Glechoma hederacea;Hypericum hirsutum;Juncus effusus;Mercurialis perennis;Poa trivialis;Ranunculus ficaria;Rosa canina;Rubus fruticosus;Rumex sanguineus;Scrophularia nodosa;Taraxacum officinale agg.;Urtica dioica;Viola riviniana;Ajuga reptans;Bromopsis ramosa;Carex acutiformis;Hedera helix;Lonicera periclymenum;Ranunculus repens;Tamus communis;Anemone nemorosa;Geranium robertianum;Ribes rubrum;Veronica chamaedrys;Veronica montana;Epipactis purpurata;Chamerion angustifolium;Epilobium montanum;Humulus lupulus;Poa pratensis;Prunella vulgaris;Pteridium aquilinum;Rubus caesius;Solanum dulcamara;Sonchus oleraceus;Epilobium tetragonum;Agrostis stolonifera;Arctium minus;Euphorbia amygdaloides;Agrostis capillaris;Bromopsis erecta;Cerastium fontanum;Cirsium arvense;Cirsium vulgare;Crepis capillaris;Dactylis glomerata;Holcus lanatus;Holcus mollis;Juncus inflexus;Lolium perenne;Lycopus europaeus;Medicago lupulina;Myosotis arvensis;Potentilla reptans;Senecio jacobaea;Silene dioica;Stachys sylvatica;Torilis japonica;Trifolium pratense;Trifolium repens;Veronica serpyllifolia;Leucanthemum vulgare;Arrhenatherum elatius;Cardamine flexuosa;Carex otrubae;Cynosurus cristatus;Hypericum tetrapterum;Lysimachia nemorum;Mentha aquatica;Mentha arvensis;Plantago major;Poa annua;Epilobium parviflorum;Milium effusum;Symphytum officinale;Rubus idaeus;Senecio vulgaris;Campanula trachelium;Carex flacca;Epilobium hirsutum;Heracleum sphondylium;Lysimachia nummularia;Primula vulgaris;Potentilla sterilis;Ranunculus auricomus;Stellaria media;Equisetum telmateia;Oxalis acetosella;Luzula pilosa;Allium ursinum;Bryonia dioica;Hieracium spp.;Paris quadrifolia;Cardamine pratensis;Fragaria vesca;Listera ovata;Orchid spp.;Platanthera chlorantha;Dryopteris affinis;Agrostis gigantea;Athyrium filix-femina;Conopodium majus;Alliaria petiolata;Moehringia trinervia;Galium odoratum;Vicia sepium;Aegopodium podagraria;Arctium lappa;Anthoxanthum odoratum;Brachypodium pinnatum;Calystegia sepium;Clinopodium vulgare;Festuca rubra;Cruciata laevipes;Galium verum;Lathyrus pratensis;Lotus corniculatus;Lotus pedunculatus;Pastinaca sativa;Phleum pratense;Pimpinella major;Pulicaria dysenterica;Hordeum secalinum;Dactylorhiza fuchsii;Galium mollugo;Scrophularia auriculata;Viola hirta;Elytrigia repens;Lapsana communis;Centaurium erythraea;Eupatorium cannabinum;Potentilla anserina;Tussilago farfara;Carex riparia;Ophioglossum vulgatum;Equisetum arvense;Festuca arundinacea;Carex hirta;Hypericum maculatum;Ulex europaeus;Anthriscus sylvestris;Cirsium eriophorum;Convolvulus arvensis;Geranium dissectum;Geranium molle;Helianthemum nummularium;Helictotrichon pubescens;Hypericum perforatum;Inula conyzae;Lithospermum officinale;Polygala vulgaris;Origanum vulgare;Arenaria serpyllifolia;Nracissus hybrid;Daucus carota;Achillea millefolium;Myosotis ramosissima;Ranunculus acris;Epipactis helleborine;Sanicula europaea;Galium palustre;Stellaria graminea;Agrimonia eupatoria;Lythrum salicaria;Succisa pratensis;Trisetum flavescens;Stachys officinalis;Rumex obtusifolius;Nectaroscordium siculum;Sanguisorba minor;Calamagrostis epigejos;Glyceria spp.;Stellaria uliginosa;Medicago sativa;Bellis perennis;Veronica hederifolia;Hypericum pulchrum;Veronica arvensis;Bromus hordeaceus;Leontodon hispidus;Veronica officinalis;Verbascum thapsus;Polygonum aviculare;Anisantha sterilis;Narcissus hybrid;Phyllitis scolopendrium;Polystichum setiferum;Festuca ovina;Festuca pratensis;Knautia arvensis;Rumex acetosa;Vicia cracca;Linum catharticum;Odontites vernus;Carex panicea;Dipsacus fullonum;Senecio sylvaticus;Melica uniflora;Veronica beccabunga;Impatiens parviflora;Glyceria fluitans;Stellaria holostea;Vicia tenuifolia;Centaurea nigra;Astragalus glycyphyllos;Ribes uva-crispa;Glyceria spp;Vicia sativa;Alopecurus pratensis;Galium uliginosum;Viola odorata;Daphne laureola;Hieracium spp;Anagallis arvensis;Ononis repens;Rumex crispus;Blechnum spicant;Hypochaeris radicata;Lysimachia vulgaris;	Abundance;Community Composition;Richness	Yes	No
Harris_2017	Solo (Print)	Book	Harris, S.A. (2017). Oxford Botanic Garden & Arboretum : a brief history. , 134 pp.. 	2017	Harris, S.A.	Oxford Botanic Garden & Arboretum : a brief history		Oxford	Bodleian Library, in association with University of Oxford Botanic Garden and Arboretum			1851244654				134 pp.	Oxford Botanic Garden is the oldest surviving botanic garden in Britain and has occupied its site in central Oxford since 1621. Conceived as a place to grow medicinal plants, born in the turmoil of civil war and nurtured during the restoration of the monarchy, the garden has, unsurprisingly, a curious past. By tracing the work and priorities of each of the garden's keepers, this book explores its importance as one of the world's oldest scientific plant collections. It tells the story of the planting of the garden by its first keeper, Jacob Bobart, and his son, together with how they changed the garden to suit their own needs. The story develops during the eighteenth century as the garden grew exotic plants under glass and acquired a fine succulent collection but then experienced a downturn under the stewardship of the eccentric Professor Humphrey Sibthorp (famous for giving just one lecture in thirty-seven years). Finally, the narrative throws light on the partnership of gardener William Baxter and academic Charles Daubeny in the early nineteenth century, which gave the garden its glasshouses and ponds and contributed to its survival to the present day. This generously illustrated book is the first history of the garden and arboretum for more than a century and provides an essential introduction to one of Oxford's much-loved haunts.	Oxford Botanic Garden 	Oxford Botanic Garden	Parks and Gardens		51.7506695,-1.247723986	Not Reported	2017	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Acer pseudoplatanus;Acer species;Agave americana;Alcea rosea;Ananas comosus;Anemone species;Arabidopsis thaliana;Araucaria araucana;Arundo donax;Asphodeline lutea;Atropa belladonna;Brassica rapa;Buxus sempervirens;Calocedrus decurrens;Camellia sinensis;Camellia species;Cannabis sativa;Carpinus betulus;Cedrus atlantica;Cinchona species;Coffea spp;Cupressus leylandii;Cupressus nootkatensis;Cydonia oblonga;Dianthus species;Erysimum cheiri;Euphorbia abyssinica;Fagopyrum esculentum;Ficus carica;Gossypium species;Hedera helix;Helianthus annuus;Hordeum vulgare;Hyacinthoides non-scripta;Hyacinthus orientalis;Hymenophyllaceae;Juglans nigra;Juniperus species;Lagetta lagetto;Leucanthemum vulgare;Ligustrum vulgare;Linum usitatissimum;Magnolia sieboldii subspecies sinensis;Malus pumila;Mandragora officinarum;Mespilus germanica;Metasequoia glyptostroboides;Mimosa pudica;Mimosa species;Morus alba;Nelumbo lutea;Nicotiana tabacum;Nymphaea x daubenyana;Olea europaea;Oryza sativa;Parnassia palustris;Pinus nigra subspecies laricio;Pinus nigra subspecies nigra;Pinus wallichiana;Platanus occidentalis;Platanus orientalis;Platanus x hispanica;Primula auricula;Prunus armeniaca;Prunus dulcis;Prunus persica;Prunus subgenus Cerasus;Prunus subgenus Prunus;Prunus subgenus Prunus;Punica granatum;Pyracantha species;Pyrus species;Qoercus robur;Ranunculus species;Rhamnus carthaticus;Rhinanthus minor;Rhododendron species;Rhododendron species;Rosmarinus officinalis;Rubus fruticosus;Saccharum officinarum;Salix babylonica;Salix species;Schlumbergera buckleyi;Senecio squalidus;Sequoia sempervirens;Sequoiadendron giganteum;Silene latifolia;Solanum dulcamara;Solanum dulcamara;Sorbus domestica;Sorbus domestica;Stewartia species;Styphnolobium japonicum;Taxus baccata;Theobroma cacoa;Torreya nucifera;Trifolium species;Vicia species;Victoria regia	Other	No	No
Thorogood_2021	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Thorogood, C.J. (2021). The University of Oxford Botanic Garden: sharing the scientific wonder and importance of plants with the world. Curtis's Botanical Magazine , 38(4) 438-450. https://doi.org/10.1111/curt.12419	2021	Thorogood, C.J.	The University of Oxford Botanic Garden: sharing the scientific wonder and importance of plants with the world	Curtis's Botanical Magazine 				https://doi.org/10.1111/curt.12419			38	4	438-450	The University of Oxford Botanic Garden is the UK's oldest botanic garden, established as a physic garden in 1621 in which medicinal plants were grown for teaching purposes. Today, the garden holds a collection of over 5000 taxa, some of which have international conservation importance. The collections of Oxford Botanic Garden are discussed with a focus on their historic, conservation and research value, and their potential for engaging people with the importance of plants at a time when it has never been more urgent in the face of global challenges.	Oxford Botanic Garden 	Oxford Botanic Garden	Parks and Gardens		51.7506695,-1.247723986	1621	2021	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Foster_2012	Solo (Digital)	Conference Paper	Foster, A. (2012). The medicinal plant collection at the University of Oxford Botanic Garden. Planta Medica, 78 - PL22(10.1055/s-0032-1321356	2012	Foster, A.	The medicinal plant collection at the University of Oxford Botanic Garden	Planta Medica				10.1055/s-0032-1321356			78 - PL22			The Botanic Garden was founded in 1621 as a physic garden to grow plants for medicinal purposes. In the subsequent 390 years the focus on medicinal plants diminished somewhat. In 2010, a new and unique, modern medicinal plant collection was established and is now being used for teaching of undergraduates, postgraduates, visiting students and academics. It is also being used in schools education programmes (from 5 years to 18 years old) and to educate local doctors (General Practitioners) about plant derived medicine (both herbal and conventional). The aims and objectives of the new collection and its impact on the education of both our general visitors and specialist groups will be presented.	Oxford Botanic Garden 	Oxford Botanic Garden	Parks and Gardens		51.7506695,-1.247723986	2010	2010	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Medicinal plants	Other	No	No
Anon_1999	Solo (Print)	Book	University of Oxford Botanic Garden (1999). A catalogue of the plants growing in the University of Oxford Botanic Garden and Harcourt Arboretum.  203 pp.. 	1999	University of Oxford Botanic Garden	A catalogue of the plants growing in the University of Oxford Botanic Garden and Harcourt Arboretum		Oxford	University of Oxford Botanic Garden							203 pp.	Although no author is credited Stephen Harris was thought to be responsible for the transfer of the database to page format. Included are facsimiles of the two earliest catalogues of the garden dating from 1648 and 1658; the former was anonymous, the second was credited to Philip Stephens and William Browne	Oxford Botanic Garden 	Oxford Botanic Garden	Parks and Gardens		51.7506695,-1.247723986	1648	1999	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Other	No	No
Harris_2018	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Harris, S.A. (2018). Seventeenth-century plant lists and herbarium collections. , 30(1) 1–14. https://doi.org/10.1093/jhc/fhx015	2018	Harris, S.A.	Seventeenth-century plant lists and herbarium collections					https://doi.org/10.1093/jhc/fhx015			30	1	1–14	Lists of pre-Linnaean polynomial names of the plants growing in seventeenth-century European living plant collections are commonplace. However, comparison among lists and interpretation of polynomials in terms of modern Linnaean binomials is a major challenge for researchers. This paper shows the importance of extant pre-Linnaean collections of herbarium specimens for interpreting lists of plant names. More than 4,000 polynomials reported from the Oxford Physic Garden between 1648 and 1676 are linked to over 1,300 Linnaean species names based on an objective methodology. These fundamental data show that medicinal, culinary and ornamental plants attracted attention in the seventeenth-century garden but that most species were primarily of botanical interest. Nearly 60 per cent of the species were introductions to Britain. Linnaean binomials reveal how the number and sorts of species changed between 1648 and 1676 and how the garden was used.	Oxford Botanic Garden 	Oxford Botanic Garden	Parks and Gardens		51.7506695,-1.247723986	Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported	Vascular plants		Not Reported	Not Reported	Not Reported
Webb_2011_CL	External	Report	Webb, J.A. 2011. Marston Meadows  JW Rare Plants Report	2011	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows  JW Rare Plants Report											There are 11 plants on the draft Rare Plants Register (RPR) for Oxfordshire to be found in the meadows adjacent to the Cherwell River in the New-Old Marston area within the New Marston Meadows SSSI boundaries. There are a further three plants on the draft RPR which are in meadows outside the SSSI.  Thus a total of 14 draft RPR species are in the whole area which forms a green north-south ribbon through the centre of Oxford.  Four UKBAP Priority plant species are present. The whole green corridor of meadows adjacent to the Cherwell through Oxford is a Conservation Target Area.  I have not been able to access the meadows at the northern end of this strip adjacent to Marston Ferry Road, but hope to do so this year now that the Oxford Preservation Trust have purchased some of them	Marston Meadows	SSSI meadows	Grassland;Wetlands	6	51.7649883643212,-1.24850554720265;51.77870033814105,-1.24922446615732;51.77809101041268,-1.24679518371445;51.76445873,-1.24899440988366	2009	2011	All Year	Vascular plants	Achillea ptarmica;Agrostis stolonifera;Blysmus compressus;Caltha palustris;Carex acuta;Carex acutiformis;Carex riparia;Carex vesicaria;Chenopodium ficifolium;Eleocharis palustris;Eleocharis uniglumis;Epilobium hirsutum;Filipendula ulmaria;Fritillaria meleagris;Galeopsis bifida;Glyceria maxima;Gnaphalium uliginosum;Hottonia palustris;Impatiens capensis;Impatiens glandulifera;Isolepis setacea;Juncus compressus;Mentha aquatica;Oenanthe fistulosa;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria laxiflora (mitis);Persicaria maculosa;Phalaris arundinacea;Potentilla anserina;Sium latifolium;Stellaria palustris;Trifolium fragiferum;Veronica scutellata	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Lamberth_2015_CL	External	Dataset	Lamberth, C. 2015. Birdwalk Marston list 18th April 2015	2015	Lamberth, C.	Birdwalk Marston list 18th April 2015												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands			2008	2015	Not Reported	Birds	Anas crecca;Anas penelope;Anas platyrhynchos;Anser anser;Ardea cinerea;Aegithalos caudatus;Branta canadensis;Carduelis carduelis;Chloris chloris;Chroicocephalus ridibundus;Columba oenas;Columba palumbus;Corvus corone;Corvus frugilegus;Corvus monedula;Cygnus olor;Dendrocopos major;Emberiza schoeniclus;Erithacus rubecula;Falco tinnunculus;Fringilla coelebs;Fulica atra;Gallinago gallinago;Garrulus glandarius;Hirundo rustica;Larus argentatus;Milvus milvus;Motacilla alba;Parus major;Passer domesticus;Phasianus colchicus;Phylloscopus collybita;Picus viridis;Pica pica;Prunella modularis;Regulus regulus;Sanguisorba officinalis;Sitta europaea;Streptopelia decaocto;Sturnus vulgaris;Sylvia atricapilla;Troglodytes troglodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Turdus pilaris;Turdus viscivorus;Aegithalos caudatus;Cyanistes caeruleus	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Lamberth_2004_CL	External	Dataset	Lamberth, C.2004. National Moth Night 220504 SP518079	2004	Lamberth, C.	National Moth Night 220504 SP518079											Moths were surveyed over the course of a day and night in May 2004	Marston Meadows	SSSI meadows	Grassland;Wetlands	1	51.7649883643212,-1.24850554720265;51.77870033814105,-1.24922446615732;51.77809101041268,-1.24679518371445;51.76445873,-1.24899440988366	2004	2004	Spring	Insects	Adela reaumurella;Agrotis puta;Anthophila fabriciana;Apamea sordens;Celypha lacunana;Charanyca trigrammica;Chiasmia clathrata;Cnephasia communana;Coleophora frischella;Colostygia pectinataria;Diarsia rubi;Epiblema cynosbatella;Epiphyas postvittana;Eupithecia abbreviata;Eupithecia assimilata;Eupithecia centaureata;Eupithecia vulgata;Glyphipterix simpliciella;Hepialus humuli;Ligdia adustata;Lomographa temerata;Lycaena phlaeas;Ochropleura plecta;Opisthograptis luteolata;Panemeria tenebrata;Pararge aegeria;Pseudargyrotoza conwagana;Pterostoma palpina;Pyrausta aurata;Tinea trinotella;Xanthorhoe montanata	Abundance;Richness	No	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Insects	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Birds	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Vascular Plants	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Mammals	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Fungi	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Non-Vascular Plants	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Webb_2014_CL	External	Dataset	Webb, J.A. 2014. Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014	2014	Webb, J.A.	Marston Meadows Hedgerow data NMWG for release 2014												Marston Meadows		Grassland;Wetlands	38		2003	2011	All Year	Molluscs	Acer campestre;Acer pseudoplatanus;Aegithalos caudatus;Aesculus hippocastaneum;Aesculus hippocastanum;Aglais urticae ;Alliaria petiolata;Aneura pinguis;Angelica sylvestris;Anisus leucostoma;Anthocaris cardamines;Anthriscus sylvestris;Arctium lappa;Arianta arbustorum;Armillaria sp ;Arum maculatum;Ascocoryne sarcoides;Aster sp.;Atriplex hastata;Aulocomnium androgynum;Auricularia mestenterica;Badhamia utricularis;Bidens tripartita;Bolitophila occlusa;Bromus ramosus;Bromus sterilis;Bryonia dioica;Calystegia sp;Carex acutiformis;Carex hirta;Carex otrubae;Carex pendula;Carex remota;Carex riparia;Carex spicata;Certhia familiaris;Chrysolina menthastri;Coniophora puteana;Cornus sanguinea;Corylus avellana;Crataegus laevigata;Crataegus monogyna;Crataegus x macrocarpa;Cyanistes caeruleus;Dacrymyces stillatus;Daedaleopsis confragrosa;Daldinia concentrica ;Depanocladus aduncus;Dicranoweissia cirrata;Epilobium hirsutum;Equisetum arvense;Equisetum palustre;Equisetum telmateia;Euonymus europaeus;Exidea thuretana;Festuca gigantea;Filipendula ulmaria;Flammulina velutipes;Fraxinus excelsior;Galanthus sp ;Galium aparine;Galium palustre;Gallinula chloropus;Ganoderma  applanatum;Geranium robertianum;Geum urbanum;Geum urbanum ;Glechoma  hederacea;Glechoma hederacea;Glyceria maxima;Hedera helix;Heracleum sphondylium;Hordeum murinum;Humulus lupulus;Hyacinthoides hispanica;Ilex aquifolium;Impatiens capensis;Iris pseudacorus;Kuhneromyces mutabilis;Laetiporus sulphureus;Laetiporus sulpureus;Lamium album;Lamium purpureum;Leskea polycarpa;Ligustrum vulgare;Lonicera periclymenum;Lunularia annua;Lunularia cruciata;Lycopus europaeus;Lysimachia nummularia;Lysimachia vulgaris;Lythrum salicaria;Malus cf sylvestris;Malus sp;Malus sp cf sylvestris;Malus sylvestris;Matricaria discoidea;Mentha aquatica;Muntiacus reevsi;Myosotis scorpioides;Passer domesticus;Persicaria hydropiper;Persicaria mitis (laxiflora);Phalaris arundinacea;Phellinus ignarius;Pholiota gummosa;Phragmites australis;Phylloscopus collybita;Physcomitrium pyriforme;Plantago major;Poa annua;Polygonum aviculare;Polygonum hydropiper;Polypodium vulgare;Polyporus brumalis;Polyporus squamosus;Populus alba;Populus canescens;Populus sp;Populus sp ;Populus sp hybrid;Populus tremula;Postia subcesia;Postia tephroleuca;Potentilla anserina;Prunella vulgaris;Prunus spinosa;Quercus robor;Ranunculus ficaria;Rhamnus cathartica;Rhamnus catharticus;Ribes nigrum;Ribes rubrum;Rorippa amphibia;Rosa canina;Rosa canina ;Rubus caesius;Rubus cesius;Rubus fruticosus;Rubus fruticosus agg;Rubus fruticosus agg.;Rumex hydrolapathum;Salix alba;Salix cinerea;Salix fragilis;Sambucus nigra;Sciurus carolinensis;Sisymbrium officinale;Solanum dulcamara;Sparganium erectum;Stachys palustris;Symphytum officinale;Taphrina pruni;Tetaneura ulmi;Thecla betulae;Tilia platyphyllos;Tilia sp;Trametes gibbosa;Trametes suaveolens;Trametes versicolor;Tremella mesenterica;Trogylodytes trogylodytes;Turdus merula;Turdus philomelos;Ulmus cf procera;Ulmus glabra;Ulmus procera;Ulums  procera;Urtica dioica;Valeriana officinalis;Veronica arvensis;Veronica beccabunga;Veronica chamaedrys;Viburnum lantana;Viburnum opulus;Vicia cracca;Vicia sativa ;Xylaria polymorpha	Abundance;Richness	Yes	No
Lamberth_2004a_CL	External	Dataset	Lamberth, C. 2004. Marston Meadows 070804 Moth Survey v1	2004	Lamberth, C.	Marston Meadows 070804 Moth Survey v1											Moths were surveyed over the course of a day and night in August 2004	Marston Meadows	SSSI meadows	Grassland;Wetlands	1	51.7649883643212,-1.24850554720265;51.77870033814105,-1.24922446615732;51.77809101041268,-1.24679518371445;51.76445873,-1.24899440988366	2004	2004	Summer	Insects	Abrostola tripartita;Acentria ephemerella;Acleris forsskaleana;Acleris laterana;Acleris variegana;Acronicta megacephala;Acronicta psi;Acronicta rumicis;Agapeta hamana;Agapeta zoegana;Agriphila geniculea;Agriphila selasella;Agriphila straminella;Agriphila tristella;Agrotis puta;Amphipyra pyramidea;Ancylis badiana;Apamea monoglypha;Archips podana;Batia lunaris;Batia unitella;Batrachedra praeangusta;Biston betularia;Blastobasis decolorella;Blastobasis lignea;Brachmia blandella;Bryotropha terrella;Cabera exanthemata;Caloptilia syringella;Camptogramma bilineata;Carcina quercana;Catocala nupta;Celaena leucostigma;Celypha lacunana;Chiasmia clathrata;Chrysoteuchia culmella;Cnephasia stephensiana;Cochylimorpha straminea;Colostygia pectinataria;Cosmia trapezina;Crocallis elinguaria;Cryphia domestica;Cydia splendana;Ditula angustiorana;Ecliptopera silaceata;Eilema griseola;Elachista maculicerusella;Endothenia marginana;Ennomos alniaria;Ennomos fuscantaria;Epinotia abbreviana;Epinotia nisella;Epiphyas postvittana;Epirrhoe alternata;Eremobia ochroleuca;Eudonia mercurella;Eupithecia assimilata;Eupithecia centaureata;Euzophera pinguis;Furcula furcula;G. assecriana;Gymnoscelis rufifasciata;Hepialus sylvina;Hoplodrina alsines;Hoplodrina ambigua;Hydraecia micacea;Hypsopygia costalis;Idaea aversata;Idaea aversata ab. remutata;Idaea biselata;Lacanobia oleracea;Laothoe populi;Ligdia adustata;Lobesia abscisana;Lomaspilis marginata;Lyonetia clerkella;Mesapamea secalis;Mesoligia furuncula;Monochroa lutulentella;Mormo maura;Mythimna conigera;Mythimna impura;Mythimna pallens;Noctua comes;Noctua fimbriata;Noctua interjecta caliginosa;Noctua janthe;Noctua pronuba;Notodonta ziczac;Ochropleura plecta;Opisthograptis luteolata;Orthopygia glaucinalis;Pandemis corylana;Pandemis heparana;Peribatodes rhomboidaria;Pheosia tremula;Phlogophora meticulosa;Phlyctaenia coronata;Phragmatobia fuliginosa;Phycita roborella;Pleuroptya ruralis;Pterostoma palpina;Pyrausta purpuralis;Rhopobota naevana;Rivula sericealis;Scrobipalpa costella;Spilonota ocellana;Swammerdamia pyrella;Teleiodes vulgella;Thalpophila matura;Timandra comai;Trachycera advenella;Xanthorhoe spadicearia;Xestia c-nigrum;Xestia xanthographa;Yponomeuta irrorella;Ypsolopha scabrella;Zelleria hepariella	Abundance;Richness	No	No
WoodlandTrust_Ext	External	Dataset	Woodland Trust. Ancient Tree Inventory, https://www.woodlandtrust.org.uk/visiting-woods/things-to-do/ancient-tree-inventory/	2023	Woodland Trust	Ancient Tree Inventory							https://www.woodlandtrust.org.uk/visiting-woods/things-to-do/ancient-tree-inventory/				A citizen science initiative maps the distribution and condition of ancient and veteran trees across the UK.	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	2006	2023	Not Reported	Vascular plants	Trees	Other	No	No
TVERC_Ext	External	Dataset	Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre.	2023	Thames Valley Environmental Records Centre. TVERC Data. https://www.tverc.org/cms/content/data-searches	TVERC Data		Oxford	Oxfordshire County Council				https://www.tverc.org/cms/content/data-searches				TVERC aims to hold all available information about the plants, animals, wildlife habitats and important wildlife and geological sites in Berkshire and Oxfordshire. TVERC holds a database of over 4 million species records plus Local Wildlife Site and Local Geological Site boundaries and information and NERC Act S41 Habitats of Principal importance (previously called UK Biodiversity Action Plan (BAP) priority habitats) and other habitat data. We also hold the boundary data for Conservation Target Areas in Oxfordshire and Biodiversity Opportunity Areas in Berkshire. These landscape-scale conservation areas are used by the Berkshire Local Nature Partnership and Wild Oxfordshire to coordinate biodiversity work in Berkshire & Oxfordshire. We can provide you with the following data for Berkshire and Oxfordshire: Locations of and information on habitats including NERC Act S41 Habitats of Principal Importance (previously called UKBAP priority habitats);  Boundaries and descriptions of Conservation Target Areas (Oxfordshire) and Biodiversity Opportunity Areas (Berkshire); Boundaries and descriptions of Local Geological Sites; Boundaries and descriptions of Local Wildlife Sites; Records for legally protected species, notable species, and other species. Data request form must be submitted; charges may apply.						1960	2023	All year	All		Other	Yes	Yes
BTO_Ext	External	Dataset	British Trust for Ornithology. BirdTrack. https://app.bto.org/data-request/data-search.jsp	2023	British Trust for Ornithology	BirdTrack		Thetford, Norfolk	BTO				https://www.bto.org/our-science/projects/birdtrack/maps-reports				BirdTrack is  a partnership between the BTO, the RSPB, Birdwatch Ireland, the Scottish Ornithologists' Club and the Welsh Ornithological Society, that looks at migration movements and distributions of birds throughout Britain and Ireland. BirdTrack developed from Migration Watch, which ran in the springs of 2002-2004, and incorporates all of the Migration Watch data. Migration Watch was able to record the timing of arrivals and pattern of migratory spread of summer visitors across Britain & Ireland. The scheme is year-round, and ongoing, and anyone with an interest in birds can contribute. Data holdings for specific locations can be searched and dat requested via on online form. Charges may apply.						2004	2023	All year	Birds		Other	Yes	No
NBN_Ext	External	Dataset	NBN Atlas Partnership. NBN Atlas.	2023	NBN Atlas Partnership	NBN Atlas		Nottingham	National Biodiversity Network Trust				https://nbnatlas.org/				The NBN Atlas is an online tool that provides a platform to engage, educate and inform people about the natural world. It will help improve biodiversity knowledge, open up research possibilities and change the way environmental management is carried out in the UK. The NBN Atlas is innovative because the combination of the multiple sources of information about UK species and habitats, and the ability to interrogate, combine, and analyse these data – in a single location – has not been done before, on this scale.  It aims to facilitate learning about and understanding the UK’s wildlife. The National Biodiversity Network (NBN), a registered charity, has been championing the sharing of biological data in the UK since 2000, with the aim of improving the availability of high resolution and high quality data to provide the evidence base for all environmental decision-making in the UK. The NBN Atlas is based on the Atlas of Living Australia infrastructure. The National Biodiversity Network has taken this open source platform and redesigned and remastered it in some places – in response to stakeholder needs – to create a bespoke system that is exceptionally useful for UK users. By adapting an existing platform, costs have been minimised and has resulted in a more powerful and functionally integrated end product. As the Atlas of Living Australia platform is open source, many other countries around the world have used the same system. This makes our UK biodiversity data compatible with other countries’ biodiversity data and allows users to compare and share data globally. The NBN Atlas Scotland, NBN Atlas Wales, NBN Atlas Isle of Man and NBN Atlas Northern Ireland are now live and are continuing to be developed, much of the development being as a result of user feedback.The NBN Atlas is the successor to the NBN Gateway.  It has much more advanced functionality than the NBN Gateway and is more intuitive to use.  The NBN Atlas, uniquely, allows users to interrogate species records, habitat, climate and soil information, geographical boundaries and to use extremely powerful mapping tools through a single portal.  It is also simple to interrogate your own biological records and habitat information, either in isolation or combined with additional information from the online database, as well as downloading and exporting maps and reports or summaries for your own use. The data partner pages of the NBN Atlas can help to link up groups who are working on similar projects, or help enthusiastic amateur biological recorders find local groups or recording schemes in their area.  The NBN Atlas launched on 1st April 2017. Taking the views of the range of NBN members into account the NBN Atlas is open access by default, except in relation to sensitive species which are restricted. Every record that is held on the NBN Atlas is licensed with one of three Creative Commons Licences or an Open Government Licence (OGL). The Atlas is searchable by location.						2000	2023	All year	All		All	Yes	No
Cranfield_Ext	External	Dataset	Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute. Soilscapes. https://www.landis.org.uk/soilscapes/	2023	Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute	Soilscapes		Cranfield	Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute				https://www.landis.org.uk/soilscapes/				Soilscapes is a 1:250,000 scale, simplified soils dataset covering England and Wales. It was created from the more detailed National Soil Map (NATMAPvector) with the purpose of effectively communicating a general understanding of the variations which occur between soil types, and how soils affect the environment. Soil heavily influences our whole ecosystem and is a fragile resource that needs to be understood and protected. Soilscapes is a freely available resource that offers soil overview information at a relatively basic level.Costs may apply for more detailed soil information. Locations can be searched for soil information.							2023						Yes
LandIS_Ext	External	Dataset	Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute, LandIS, 2023 NATMAP Carbon: Soil Organic Carbon Map	2023	Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute	NATMAP Carbon: Soil Organic Carbon Map		Cranfield	Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute				https://www.landis.org.uk/data/nmcarbon.cfm				NATMAPcarbon is a product derived from the National Soil Map. It provides users with a summary of the stock of carbon in the soils across England and Wales at three layer depths 0-30 cm, 30-100 cm and 100-150 cm. it contains: Simplified rendition of the national soil map; Average Organic Carbon percentage in soils for 3 soil layers; Organic carbon stock per unit area for 3 soil layers. Charges may apply for detailed location-based  data.							2023						Yes
WythamTits_2022	Oxford University (Other)	Website	Wytham Tits. 75 years of studying wild birds in Wytham Woods . http://wythamtits.com/#intro	2022	Wytham Tit Project	Wytham Tits. 75 years of studying wild birds in Wytham Woods 		Oxford	University of Oxford				http://wythamtits.com/#intro				The Wytham Tit Project is a long-term population study of two woodland bird species - great tits (Parus major) and blue tits (Cyanistes caeruleus)  - based at Wytham Woods near Oxford, UK, and is run by the Edward Grey Institute in the Department of Zoology at the University of Oxford. Although the majority of the work focusses on great and blue tits, there are smaller populations of coal tits (Periparus ater) and marsh tits (Poecile palustris) which are of particular interest for their role in interspecific flocking and information spread. As with much of the UK, the willow tit (Poecile montana) no longer breeds in Wytham. 	Wytham Estate	Wytham Wood (unspecified)	Woodland		51.768935,-1.329199	1942	2022	All year	Birds	Parus major;Cyanistes caeruleus;Periparus ater;Poecile palustris	Abundance;Other	Yes	No
Gresty_2018	Solo (Digital)	Journal Article	Gresty CE, Clare E, Devey DS, Cowan RS, Csiba L, Malakasi P, Lewis OT, Willis KJ. Flower preferences and pollen transport networks for cavity‐nesting solitary bees: Implications for the design of agri‐environment schemes. Ecology and evolution. 2018 Aug;8(15):7574-87.	2018	Gresty, C.E.A.	Flower preferences and pollen transport networks for cavity‐nesting solitary bees: Implications for the design of agri‐environment schemes. Ecology and evolution	Ecology and Evolution				https://doi.org/10.1002/ece3.4234			8	15		Floral foraging resources are valuable for pollinator conservation on farmland, and their provision is encouraged by agri-environment schemes in many countries. Across Europe, wildflower seed mixtures are widely sown on farmland to encourage pollinators, but the extent to which key pollinator groups such as solitary bees exploit and benefit from these resources is unclear. We used high-throughput sequencing of 164 pollen samples extracted from the brood cells of six common cavity-nesting solitary bee species (Osmia bicornis, Osmia caerulescens, Megachile versicolor, Megachile ligniseca, Megachile centuncularis and Hylaeus confusus) which are widely distributed across the UK and Europe. We documented their pollen use across 19 farms in southern England, UK, revealing their forage plants and examining the structure of their pollen transport networks. Of the 32 plant species included currently in sown wildflower mixes, 15 were recorded as present within close foraging range of the bees on the study farms, but only Ranunculus acris L. was identified within the pollen samples. Rosa canina L. was the most commonly found of the 23 plant species identified in the pollen samples, suggesting that, in addition to providing a nesting resource for Megachile leafcutter bees, it may be an important forage plant for these species. Higher levels of connectance and nestedness were characteristic of pollen transport networks on farms with abundant floral resources, which may increase resilience to species loss. Our data suggest that plant species promoted currently by agri-environment schemes are not optimal for solitary bee foraging. If a diverse community of pollinators is to be supported on UK and European farmland, additional species such as R. canina should be encouraged to meet the foraging requirements of solitary bees.	Wytham Estate	University Farm	Grassland		51.78671864,-1.30919361	2014	2017	Autumn;Spring;Summer	Insects	Osmia bicornis;Osmia caerulescens;Megachile versicolor;Megachile ligniseca;Megachile centuncularis;Hylaeus confusus	Abundance;Richness	No	No